<U+FEFF>




DUDLEY DEMENTED 

The hottest day of the summer so far was drawing to 
a close and a drowsy silence lay over the large, square 
houses of Privet Drive. Cars that were usually 
gleaming stood dusty in their drives and lawns that 
were once emerald green lay parched and yellowing; 
the use of hosepipes had been banned due to 
drought. Deprived of their usual car-washing and 
lawn-mowing pursuits, the inhabitants of Privet Drive 
had retreated into the shade of their cool houses, 
windows thrown wide in the hope of tempting in a 
nonexistent breeze. The only person left outdoors was 
a teenage boy who was lying flat on his back in a 
flower bed outside number four. 

He was a skinny, black-haired, bespectacled boy who 
had the pinched, slightly unhealthy look of someone 
who has grown a lot in a short space of time. His 
jeans were torn and dirty, his T-shirt baggy and 
faded, and the soles of his trainers were peeling away 
from the uppers. Harry Potter몭s appearance did not 
endear him to the neighbors, who were the sort of 
people who thought scruffiness ought to be 
| 



punishable by law, but as he had hidden himself 
behind a large hydrangea bush this evening he was 
quite invisible to passersby. In fact, the only way he 
would be spotted was if his Uncle Vernon or Aunt 
Petunia stuck their heads out of the living room 
window and looked straight down into the flower bed 
below. 

On the whole, Harry thought he was to be 
congratulated on his idea of hiding here. He was not, 
perhaps, very comfortable lying on the hot, hard 
earth, but on the other hand, nobody was glaring at 
him, grinding their teeth so loudly that he could not 
hear the news, or shooting nasty questions at him, as 
had happened every time he had tried sitting down in 
the living room and watching television with his aunt 
and uncle. 

Almost as though this thought had fluttered through 
the open window, Vernon Dursley, Harry몭s uncle, 
suddenly spoke. 몮Glad to see the boy몭s stopped trying 
to butt in. Where is he anyway?몯 

몮I don몭t know,몯 said Aunt Petunia unconcernedly. 몮Not 
in the house.몯 

Uncle Vernon grunted. 

몮Watching the news ...몯 he said scathingly. 몮I몭d like to 
know what he몭s really up to. As if a normal boy cares 
what몭s on the news 멪 Dudley hasn몭t got a clue what몭s 
going on, doubt he knows who the Prime Minister is! 
Anyway, it몭s not as if there 몭d be anything about his lot 
on our news 멪 몯 

몮Vernon, shh\몯 said Aunt Petunia. 몮The window몭s 
open!몯 

몮Oh 멪 yes 멪 sorry, dear ...몯 

| 3 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




The Dursleys fell silent. Harry listened to a jingle 
about Fruit 몭N Bran breakfast cereal while he watched 
Mrs. Figg, a batty, cat-loving old lady from nearby 
Wisteria Walk, amble slowly past. She was frowning 
and muttering to herself. Harry was very pleased that 
he was concealed behind the bush; Mrs. Figg had 
recently taken to asking him around for tea whenever 
she met him in the street. She had rounded the 
corner and vanished from view before Uncle Vernon몭s 
voice floated out of the window again. 

몮Dudders out for tea?몯 

몮At the Polkisses몭,몯 said Aunt Petunia fondly. 몮He몭s got 
so many little friends, he몭s so popular ...몯 

Harry repressed a snort with difficulty. The Dursleys 
really were astonishingly stupid about their son, 
Dudley; they had swallowed all his dim-witted lies 
about having tea with a different member of his gang 
every night of the summer holidays. Harry knew 
perfectly well that Dudley had not been to tea 
anywhere; he and his gang spent every evening 
vandalizing the play park, smoking on street corners, 
and throwing stones at passing cars and children. 
Harry had seen them at it during his evening walks 
around Little Whinging; he had spent most of the 
holidays wandering the streets, scavenging 
newspapers from bins along the way. 

The opening notes of the music that heralded the 
seven o몭clock news reached Harry몭s ears and his 
stomach turned over. Perhaps tonight 멪 after a 
month of waiting 멪 would be the night 멪 

몮Record numbers of stranded holidaymakers fill 
airports as the Spanish baggage-handlers몭 strike 
reaches its second week 멪 몯 



| 4 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




몮Give 몭em a lifelong siesta, I would,몯 snarled Uncle 
Vernon over the end of the newsreader몭s sentence, 
but no matter: Outside in the flower bed, Harry몭s 
stomach seemed to unclench. If anything had 
happened, it would surely have been the first item on 
the news; death and destruction were more important 
than stranded holidaymakers... 

He let out a long, slow breath and stared up at the 
brilliant blue sky. Every day this summer had been 
the same: the tension, the expectation, the temporary 
relief, and then mounting tension again . . . and 
always, growing more insistent all the time, the 
question of why nothing had happened yet... 

He kept listening, just in case there was some small 
clue, not recognized for what it really was by the 
Muggles 멪 an unexplained disappearance, 
perhaps, or some strange accident ... but the 
baggage-handlers몭 strike was followed by news on the 
drought in the Southeast (몮I hope he몭s listening next 
door!몯 bellowed Uncle Vernon, 몮with his sprinklers on 
at three in the morning!몯); then a helicopter that had 
almost crashed in a field in Surrey, then a famous 
actress몭s divorce from her famous husband (몮as if 
we몭re interested in their sordid affairs,몯 sniffed Aunt 
Petunia, who had followed the case obsessively in 
every magazine she could lay her bony hands on). 

Harry closed his eyes against the now blazing evening 
sky as the newsreader said, 몮And finally, Bungy the 
budgie has found a novel way of keeping cool this 
summer. Bungy, who lives at the Five Feathers in 
Barnsley, has learned to water-ski! Mary Dorkins 
went to find out more...몯 

Harry opened his eyes again. If they had reached 
water-skiing budgerigars, there was nothing else 
worth hearing. He rolled cautiously onto his front and 

| 5 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




raised himself onto his knees and elbows, preparing 
to crawl out from under the window. 

He had moved about two inches when several things 
happened in very quick succession. 

A loud, echoing crack broke the sleepy silence like a 
gunshot; a cat streaked out from under a parked car 
and flew out of sight; a shriek, a bellowed oath, and 
the sound of breaking china came from the Dursleys몭 
living room, and as though Harry had been waiting 
for this signal, he jumped to his feet, at the same time 
pulling from the waistband of his jeans a thin wooden 
wand as if he were unsheathing a sword. But before 
he could draw himself up to full height, the top of his 
head collided with the Dursleys몭 open window, and 
the resultant crash made Aunt Petunia scream even 
louder. 

Harry felt as if his head had been split in two; eyes 
streaming, he swayed, trying to focus on the street 
and spot the source of the noise, but he had barely 
staggered upright again when two large purple hands 
reached through the open window and closed tightly 
around his throat. 

몮Put 멪 it 멪 away\몯 Uncle Vernon snarled into Harry몭s 
ear. 몮Now\ Before 멪 anyone 멪 sees!몯 

몮Get 멪 off 멪 me!몯 Harry gasped; for a few seconds 
they struggled, Harry pulling at his uncle몭s sausage- 
like fingers with his left hand, his right maintaining a 
firm grip on his raised wand. Then, as the pain in the 
top of Harry몭s head gave a particularly nasty throb, 
Uncle Vernon yelped and released Harry as though he 
had received an electric shock 멪 some invisible force 
seemed to have surged through his nephew, making 
him impossible to hold. 



| 




Panting, Harry fell forward over the hydrangea bush, 
straightened up, and stared around. There was no 
sign of what had caused the loud cracking noise, but 
there were several faces peering through various 
nearby windows. Harry stuffed his wand hastily back 
into his jeans and tried to look innocent. 

몮Lovely evening!몯 shouted Uncle Vernon, waving at 
Mrs. Number Seven, who was glaring from behind her 
net curtains. 몮Did you hear that car backfire just 
now? Gave Petunia and me quite a turn!몯 

He continued to grin in a horrible, manic way until all 
the curious neighbors had disappeared from their 
various windows, then the grin became a grimace of 
rage as he beckoned Harry back toward him. 

Harry moved a few steps closer, taking care to stop 
just short of the point at which Uncle Vernon몭s 
outstretched hands could resume their strangling. 

몮What the devil do you mean by it, boy?몯 asked Uncle 
Vernon in a croaky voice that trembled with fury. 

몮What do I mean by what?몯 said Harry coldly. He kept 
looking left and right up the street, still hoping to see 
the person who had made the cracking noise. 

몮Making a racket like a starting pistol right outside 
our 멪 몯 

몮I didn몭t make that noise,몯 said Harry firmly. 

Aunt Petunia몭s thin, horsey face now appeared beside 
Uncle Vernon몭s wide, purple one. She looked livid. 

몮Why were you lurking under our window?몯 



| 




몮Yes 멪 yes, good point, Petunia! What were you doing 
under our window, boy?몯 

몮Listening to the news,몯 said Harry in a resigned 
voice. 

His aunt and uncle exchanged looks of outrage. 

몮Listening to the news! Again?몯 

몮Well, it changes every day, you see,몯 said Harry. 

몮Don몭t you be clever with me, boy! I want to know 
what you몭re really up to 멪 and don몭t give me any 
more of this listening to the news tosh! You know 
perfectly well that your lot ...몯 

몮Careful, Vernon!몯 breathed Aunt Petunia, and Uncle 
Vernon lowered his voice so that Harry could barely 
hear him, "... that your lot don몭t get on our news!몯 

몮That몭s all you know,몯 said Harry. 

The Dursleys goggled at him for a few seconds, then 
Aunt Petunia said, 몮You몭re a nasty little liar. What are 
all those 멪 몯 she too lowered her voice so that Harry 
had to lip-read the next word, 몮 멪 owls 멪 doing if 
they몭re not bringing you news?몯 

몮Aha!몯 said Uncle Vernon in a triumphant whisper. 
몮Get out of that one, boy! As if we didn몭t know you get 
all your news from those pestilential birds!몯 

Harry hesitated for a moment. It cost him something 
to tell the truth this time, even though his aunt and 
uncle could not possibly know how bad Harry felt at 
admitting it. 



| 




몮The owls ... aren몭t bringing me news,몯 said Harry 
tonelessly. 

몮I don몭t believe it,몯 said Aunt Petunia at once. 

몮No more do I,몯 said Uncle Vernon forcefully. 

몮We know you몭re up to something funny,몯 said Aunt 
Petunia. 

몮We몭re not stupid, you know,몯 said Uncle Vernon. 

몮Well, that몭s news to me,몯 said Harry, his temper 
rising, and before the Dursleys could call him back, 
he had wheeled about, crossed the front lawn, 
stepped over the low garden wall, and was striding off 
up the street. 

He was in trouble now and he knew it. He would have 
to face his aunt and uncle later and pay the price for 
his rudeness, but he did not care very much just at 
the moment; he had much more pressing matters on 
his mind. 

Harry was sure that the cracking noise had been 
made by someone Apparating or Disapparating. It 
was exactly the sound Dobby the house-elf made 
when he vanished into thin air. Was it possible that 
Dobby was here in Privet Drive? Could Dobby be 
following him right at this very moment? As this 
thought occurred he wheeled around and stared back 
down Privet Drive, but it appeared to be completely 
deserted again and Harry was sure that Dobby did 
not know how to become invisible... 

He walked on, hardly aware of the route he was 
taking, for he had pounded these streets so often 
lately that his feet carried him to his favorite haunts 
automatically. Every few steps he glanced back over 

| 9 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




his shoulder. Someone magical had been near him as 
he lay among Aunt Petunias dying begonias, he was 
sure of it. Why hadn몭t they spoken to him, why hadn몭t 
they made contact, why were they hiding now? 

And then, as his feeling of frustration peaked, his 
certainty leaked away. 

Perhaps it hadn몭t been a magical sound after all. 
Perhaps he was so desperate for the tiniest sign of 
contact from the world to which he belonged that he 
was simply overreacting to perfectly ordinary noises. 
Could he be sure it hadn몭t been the sound of 
something breaking inside a neighbor몭s house? 

Harry felt a dull, sinking sensation in his stomach 
and, before he knew it, the feeling of hopelessness 
that had plagued him all summer rolled over him 
once again... 

Tomorrow morning he would be awoken by the alarm 
at five o몭clock so that he could pay the owl that 
delivered the Daily Prophet 멪 but was there any point 
in continuing to take it? Harry merely glanced at the 
front page before throwing it aside these days; when 
the idiots who ran the paper finally realized that 
Voldemort was back it would be headline news, and 
that was the only kind Harry cared about. 

If he was lucky, there would also be owls carrying 
letters from his best friends, Ron and Hermione, 
though any expectation he had had that their letters 
would bring him news had long since been dashed. 

몮We can몭t say much about you-know-what, 
obviously...몯 몮We몭ve been told not to say anything 
important in case our letters go astray...몯 몮We몭re quite 
busy but I can몭t give you details here...몯 몮There몭s a fair 



| 




amount going on, we몭ll tell you everything when we see 
you...몯 

But when were they going to see him? Nobody seemed 
too bothered with a precise date. Hermione had 
scribbled, 몮I expect we몭ll be seeing you quite soon몯 
inside his birthday card, but how soon was soon? As 
far as Harry could tell from the vague hints in their 
letters, Hermione and Ron were in the same place, 
presumably at Ron몭s parents몭 house. He could hardly 
bear to think of the pair of them having fun at the 
Burrow when he was stuck in Privet Drive. In fact, he 
was so angry at them that he had thrown both their 
birthday presents of Honeydukes chocolates away 
unopened, though he had regretted this after eating 
the wilting salad Aunt Petunia had provided for 
dinner that night. 

And what were Ron and Hermione busy with? Why 
wasn몭t he, Harry, busy? Hadn몭t he proved himself 
capable of handling much more than they? Had they 
all forgotten what he had done? Hadn몭t it been he who 
had entered that graveyard and watched Cedric being 
murdered and been tied to that tombstone and nearly 
killed ... ? 

Don몭t think about that, Harry told himself sternly for 
the hundredth time that summer. It was bad enough 
that he kept revisiting the graveyard in his 
nightmares, without dwelling on it in his waking 
moments too. 

He turned a corner into Magnolia Crescent; halfway 
along he passed the narrow alleyway down the side of 
a garage where he had first clapped eyes on his 
godfather. Sirius, at least, seemed to understand how 
Harry was feeling; admittedly his letters were just as 
empty of proper news as Ron and Hermione몭s, but at 



| 




least they contained words of caution and consolation 
instead of tantalizing hints: 

몮 I know this must be frustrating for you...몯 몮Keep your 
nose clean and everything will be okay...몯 몮Be careful 
and don몭t do anything rash...몯 

Well, thought Harry, as he crossed Magnolia 
Crescent, turned into Magnolia Road, and headed 
toward the darkening play park, he had (by and large) 
done as Sirius advised; he had at least resisted the 
temptation to tie his trunk to his broomstick and set 
off for the Burrow by himself. In fact Harry thought 
his behavior had been very good considering how 
frustrated and angry he felt at being stuck in Privet 
Drive this long, reduced to hiding in flower beds in 
the hope of hearing something that might point to 
what Lord Voldemort was doing. Nevertheless, it was 
quite galling to be told not to be rash by a man who 
had served twelve years in the wizard prison, 

Azkaban, escaped, attempted to commit the murder 
he had been convicted for in the first place, then gone 
on the run with a stolen hippogriff. . . 

Harry vaulted over the locked park gate and set off 
across the parched grass. The park was as empty as 
the surrounding streets. When he reached the swings 
he sank onto the only one that Dudley and his friends 
had not yet managed to break, coiled one arm around 
the chain, and stared moodily at the ground. He 
would not be able to hide in the Dursleys몭 flower bed 
again. Tomorrow he would have to think of some 
fresh way of listening to the news. In the meantime, 
he had nothing to look forward to but another 
restless, disturbed night, because even when he 
escaped nightmares about Cedric he had unsettling 
dreams about long dark corridors, all finishing in 
dead ends and locked doors, which he supposed had 
something to do with the trapped feeling he had when 
| 




he was awake. Often the old scar on his forehead 
prickled uncomfortably, but he did not fool himself 
that Ron or Hermione or Sirius would find that very 
interesting anymore... In the past his scar hurting 
had warned that Voldemort was getting stronger 
again, but now that Voldemort was back they would 
probably remind him that its regular irritation was 
only to be expected... Nothing to worry about ... old 
news ... 

The injustice of it all welled up inside him so that he 
wanted to yell with fury. If it hadn몭t been for him, 
nobody would even have known Voldemort was back! 
And his reward was to be stuck in Little Whinging for 
four solid weeks, completely cut off from the magical 
world, reduced to squatting among dying begonias so 
that he could hear about water-skiing budgerigars! 
How could Dumbledore have forgotten him so easily? 
Why had Ron and Hermione got together without 
inviting him along too? How much longer was he 
supposed to endure Sirius telling him to sit tight and 
be a good boy; or resist the temptation to write to the 
stupid Daily Prophet and point out that Voldemort 
had returned? These furious thoughts whirled around 
in Harry몭s head, and his insides writhed with anger as 
a sultry, velvety night fell around him, the air full of 
the smell of warm, dry grass and the only sound that 
of the low grumble of traffic on the road beyond the 
park railings. 

He did not know how long he had sat on the swing 
before the sound of voices interrupted his musings 
and he looked up. The street-lamps from the 
surrounding roads were casting a misty glow strong 
enough to silhouette a group of people making their 
way across the park. One of them was singing a loud, 
crude song. The others were laughing. A soft ticking 
noise came from several expensive racing bikes that 
they were wheeling along. 

| 




Harry knew who those people were. The figure in front 
was unmistakably his cousin, Dudley Dursley, 
wending his way home, accompanied by his faithful 
gang. 

Dudley was as vast as ever, but a year몭s hard dieting 
and the discovery of a new talent had wrought quite a 
change in his physique. As Uncle Vernon delightedly 
told anyone who would listen, Dudley had recently 
become the Junior Heavyweight Inter-School Boxing 
Champion of the Southeast. 몮The noble sport,몯 as 
Uncle Vernon called it, had made Dudley even more 
formidable than he had seemed to Harry in the 
primary school days when he had served as Dudley몭s 
first punching bag. Harry was not remotely afraid of 
his cousin anymore but he still didn몭t think that 
Dudley learning to punch harder and more accurately 
was cause for celebration. Neighborhood children all 
around were terrified of him 멪 even more terrified 
than they were of 몮that Potter boy,몯 who, they had 
been warned, was a hardened hooligan who attended 
St. Brutus몭s Secure Center for Incurably Criminal 
Boys. 

Harry watched the dark figures crossing the grass 
and wondered whom they had been beating up 
tonight. Look round, Harry found himself thinking as 
he watched them. Come on ... look round ... I몭m sitting 
here all alone... Come and have ago... 

If Dudley몭s friends saw him sitting here, they would 
be sure to make a beeline for him, and what would 
Dudley do then? He wouldn몭t want to lose face in 
front of the gang, but he몭d be terrified of provoking 
Harry. . . It would be really fun to watch Dudley몭s 
dilemma; to taunt him, watch him, with him 
powerless to respond . . . and if any of the others tried 
hitting Harry, Harry was ready 멪 he had his wand . . . 
let them try ... He몭d love to vent some of his 
| 




frustration on the boys who had once made his life 
hell 멪 



But they did not turn around, they did not see him, 
they were almost at the railings. Harry mastered the 
impulse to call after them... Seeking a fight was not a 
smart move... He must not use magic... He would be 
risking expulsion again... 

Dudley몭s gang몭s voices died; they were out of sight, 
heading along Magnolia Road. 

There you go, Sirius, Harry thought dully. Nothing 
rash. Kept my nose clean. Exactly the opposite of what 
you몭d have done ... 

He got to his feet and stretched. Aunt Petunia and 
Uncle Vernon seemed to feel that whenever Dudley 
turned up was the right time to be home, and anytime 
after that was much too late. Uncle Vernon had 
threatened to lock Harry in the shed if he came home 
after Dudley again, so, stifling a yawn, still scowling, 
Harry set off toward the park gate. 

Magnolia Road, like Privet Drive, was full of large, 
square houses with perfectly manicured lawns, all 
owned by large, square owners who drove very clean 
cars similar to Uncle Vernon몭s. Harry preferred Little 
Whinging by night, when the curtained windows 
made patches of jewel-bright colors in the darkness 
and he ran no danger of hearing disapproving 
mutters about his 몮delinquent몯 appearance when he 
passed the householders. He walked quickly, so that 
halfway along Magnolia Road Dudley몭s gang came into 
view again; they were saying their farewells at the 
entrance to Magnolia Crescent. Harry stepped into 
the shadow of a large lilac tree and waited. 



| 




"... squealed like a pig, didn몭t he?몯 Malcolm was 
saying, to guffaws from the others. 

몮Nice right hook, Big D,몯 said Piers. 

몮Same time tomorrow?몯 said Dudley. 

몮Round at my place, my parents are out,몯 said 
Gordon. 

몮See you then,몯 said Dudley. 

몮Bye Dud!몯 

몮See ya, Big D!몯 

Harry waited for the rest of the gang to move on 
before setting off again. When their voices had faded 
once more he headed around the corner into Magnolia 
Crescent and by walking very quickly he soon came 
within hailing distance of Dudley, who was strolling 
along at his ease, humming tunelessly. 

몮Hey, Big D!몯 

Dudley turned. 

몮Oh,몯 he grunted. 몮It몭s you.몯 

몮How long have you been 몬Big D몭 then?몯 said Harry. 

몮Shut it,몯 snarled Dudley, turning away again. 

몮Cool name,몯 said Harry, grinning and falling into 
step beside his cousin. 몮But you몭ll always be Ickle 
Diddykins to me.몯 

몮I said, SHUT IT!몯 said Dudley, whose ham-like hands 
had curled into fists. 

| 




몮Don몭t the boys know that몭s what your mum calls 
you?몯 

몮Shut your face.몯 

몮You don몭t tell her to shut her face. What about 
몬popkin몭 and 몬Dinky Diddydums,몭 can I use them 
then?몯 

Dudley said nothing. The effort of keeping himself 
from hitting Harry seemed to be demanding all his 
self-control. 

몮So who몭ve you been beating up tonight?몯 Harry 
asked, his grin fading. 몮Another ten-year-old? I know 
you did Mark Evans two nights ago 멪 몯 

몮He was asking for it,몯 snarled Dudley. 

몮Oh yeah?몯 

몮He cheeked me.몯 

몮Yeah? Did he say you look like a pig that몭s been 
taught to walk on its hind legs? 몭Cause that몭s not 
cheek, Dud, that몭s true ...몯 

A muscle was twitching in Dudley몭s jaw. It gave Harry 
enormous satisfaction to know how furious he was 
making Dudley; he felt as though he was siphoning 
off his own frustration into his cousin, the only outlet 
he had. 

They turned right down the narrow alleyway where 
Harry had first seen Sirius and which formed a 
shortcut between Magnolia Crescent and Wisteria 
Walk. It was empty and much darker than the streets 
it linked because there were no streetlamps. Their 



| 




footsteps were muffled between garage walls on one 
side and a high fence on the other. 

몮Think you몭re a big man carrying that thing, don몭t 
you?몯 Dudley said after a few seconds. 

몮What thing?몯 

몮That 멪 that thing you몭re hiding.몯 

Harry grinned again. 

몮Not as stupid as you look, are you, Dud? But I s몭pose 
if you were, you wouldn몭t be able to walk and talk at 
the same time...몯 

Harry pulled out his wand. He saw Dudley look 
sideways at it. 

몮You몭re not allowed,몯 Dudley said at once. 몮I know 
you몭re not. You몭d get expelled from that freak school 
you go to.몯 

몮How d몭you know they haven몭t changed the rules, Big 
D?몯 

몮They haven몭t,몯 said Dudley, though he didn몭t sound 
completely convinced. Harry laughed softly. 

몮You haven몭t got the guts to take me on without that 
thing, have you?몯 Dudley snarled. 

몮Whereas you just need four mates behind you before 
you can beat up a ten-year-old. You know that boxing 
title you keep banging on about? How old was your 
opponent? Seven? Eight?몯 

몮He was sixteen for your information,몯 snarled 
Dudley, 몮and he was out cold for twenty minutes after 

| 




I몭d finished with him and he was twice as heavy as 
you. You just wait till I tell Dad you had that thing 
out 멪 몯 

몮Running to Daddy now, are you? Is his ickle boxing 
champ frightened of nasty Harry몭s wand?몯 

몮Not this brave at night, are you?몯 sneered Dudley. 

몮This is night, Diddykins. That몭s what we call it when 
it goes all dark like this.몯 

몮I mean when you몭re in bed!몯 Dudley snarled. 

He had stopped walking. Harry stopped too, staring at 
his cousin. From the little he could see of Dudley몭s 
large face, he was wearing a strangely triumphant 
look. 

몮What d몭you mean, I몭m not brave in bed?몯 said Harry, 
completely nonplussed. 몮What 멪 am I supposed to be 
frightened of pillows or something?몯 

몮I heard you last night,몯 said Dudley breathlessly. 
몮Talking in your sleep. Moaning.몯 

몮What d몭you mean?몯 Harry said again, but there was 
a cold, plunging sensation in his stomach. He had 
revisited the graveyard last night in his dreams. 

Dudley gave a harsh bark of laughter then adopted a 
high-pitched, whimpering voice. 몮 몬Don몭t kill Cedric! 
Don몭t kill Cedric!몭 Who몭s Cedric 멪 your boyfriend?몯 

몮I 멪 you몭re lying 멪 몯 said Harry automatically. But his 
mouth had gone dry. He knew Dudley wasn몭t lying 멪 
how else would he know about Cedric? 



| 




몮 T)ad! Help me, Dad! He몭s going to kill me, Dad! Boo- 
hoo!몯몭 

몮Shut up,몯 said Harry quietly. 몮Shut up, Dudley, I몭m 
warning you!몯 

몮 몬Come and help me, Dad! Mum, come and help me! 
He몭s killed Cedric! Dad, help me! He몭s going to 멪 몭 
Don몭t you point that thing at me\몯 

Dudley backed into the alley wall. Harry was pointing 
the wand directly at Dudley몭s heart. Harry could feel 
fourteen years몭 hatred of Dudley pounding in his 
veins 멪 what wouldn몭t he give to strike now, to jinx 
Dudley so thoroughly he몭d have to crawl home like an 
insect, struck dumb, sprouting feelers 멪 

몮Don몭t ever talk about that again,몯 Harry snarled. 
몮D몭you understand me?몯 

몮Point that thing somewhere else!몯 

몮I said, do you understand me?몯 

몮Point it somewhere else\몯 

몮DO YOU UNDERSTAND ME?몯 

몮GET THAT THING AWAY FROM 멪 몯 

Dudley gave an odd, shuddering gasp, as though he 
had been doused in icy water. 

Something had happened to the night. The star- 
strewn indigo sky was suddenly pitch-black and 
lightless 멪 the stars, the moon, the misty streetlamps 
at either end of the alley had vanished. The distant 
grumble of cars and the whisper of trees had gone. 

The balmy evening was suddenly piercingly, bitingly 
| 20 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




cold. They were surrounded by total, impenetrable, 
silent darkness, as though some giant hand had 
dropped a thick, icy mantle over the entire alleyway, 
blinding them. 

For a split second Harry thought he had done magic 
without meaning to, despite the fact that he몭d been 
resisting as hard as he could 멪 then his reason 
caught up with his senses 멪 he didn몭t have the power 
to turn off the stars. He turned his head this way and 
that, trying to see something, but the darkness 
pressed on his eyes like a weightless veil. 

Dudley몭s terrified voice broke in Harry몭s ear. 

몮W-what are you d-doing? St-stop it!몯 

몮I몭m not doing anything! Shut up and don몭t move!몯 

몮I c-can몭t see! I몭ve g-gone blind! I 멪 몯 

몮I said shut up!몯 

Harry stood stock-still, turning his sightless eyes left 
and right. The cold was so intense that he was 
shivering all over; goose bumps had erupted up his 
arms, and the hairs on the back of his neck were 
standing up 멪 he opened his eyes to their fullest 
extent, staring blankly around, unseeing . . . 

It was impossible... They couldn몭t be here... Not in 
Little Whinging ... He strained his ears... He would 
hear them before he saw them... 

몮I몭ll t-tell Dad!몯 Dudley whimpered. 몮W-where are you? 
What are you d-do 멪 ?몯 

몮Will you shut up?몯 Harry hissed, 몮I몭m trying to lis 멪 몯 



| 




But he fell silent. He had heard just the thing he had 
been dreading. 



There was something in the alleyway apart from 
themselves, something that was drawing long, hoarse, 
rattling breaths. Harry felt a horrible jolt of dread as 
he stood trembling in the freezing air. 

몮C-cut it out! Stop doing it! Ill h-hit you, I swear I 
will!몯 

몮Dudley, shut 멪 몯 

WHAM 

A fist made contact with the side of Harry몭s head, 
lifting Harry off his feet. Small white lights popped in 
front of Harry몭s eyes; for the second time in an hour 
he felt as though his head had been cleaved in two; 
next moment he had landed hard on the ground, and 
his wand had flown out of his hand. 

몮You moron, Dudley!몯 Harry yelled, his eyes watering 
with pain, as he scrambled to his hands and knees, 
now feeling around frantically in the blackness. He 
heard Dudley blundering away, hitting the alley fence, 
stumbling. 

몮DUDLEY, COME BACK! YOU몭RE RUNNING RIGHT 
AT IT!몯 

There was a horrible squealing yell, and Dudley몭s 
footsteps stopped. At the same moment, Harry felt a 
creeping chill behind him that could mean only one 
thing. There was more than one. 

몮DUDLEY, KEEP YOUR MOUTH SHUT! WHATEVER 
YOU DO, KEEP YOUR MOUTH SHUT! Wand!몯 Harry 

| 22 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




muttered frantically, his hands flying over the ground 
like spiders. 몮Where몭s 멪 wand 멪 come on 멪 Lumosl몯 

He said the spell automatically, desperate for light to 
help him in his search 멪 and to his disbelieving 
relief, light flared inches from his right hand 멪 the 
wand tip had ignited. Harry snatched it up, 
scrambled to his feet, and turned around. 

His stomach turned over. 

A towering, hooded figure was gliding smoothly 
toward him, hovering over the ground, no feet or face 
visible beneath its robes, sucking on the night as it 
came. 

Stumbling backward, Harry raised his wand. 

몮Expecto Patronurrd몯 

A silvery wisp of vapor shot from the tip of the wand 
and the dementor slowed, but the spell hadn몭t worked 
properly; tripping over his feet, Harry retreated 
farther as the dementor bore down upon him, panic 
fogging his brain 멪 concentrate 멪 

A pair of gray, slimy, scabbed hands slid from inside 
the dementor몭s robes, reaching for him. A rushing 
noise filled Harry몭s ears. 

몮Expecto PatronumV몭 

His voice sounded dim and distant... Another wisp of 
silver smoke, feebler than the last, drifted from the 
wand 멪 he couldn몭t do it anymore, he couldn몭t work 
the spell 멪 

There was laughter inside his own head, shrill, high- 
pitched laughter... He could smell the dementor몭s 

| 23 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




putrid, death-cold breath, filling his own lungs, 
drowning him 멪 Think ... something happy... 

But there was no happiness in him... The dementor몭s 
icy fingers were closing on his throat 멪 the high- 
pitched laughter was growing louder and louder, and 
a voice spoke inside his head 멪 몮Bow to death, 

Harry. . . It might even be painless. . . I would not 
know... I have never died...몯 

He was never going to see Ron and Hermione again 멪 

And their faces burst clearly into his mind as he 
fought for breath 멪 

몮EXPECTO PATRONUM몯 

An enormous silver stag erupted from the tip of 
Harry몭s wand; its antlers caught the dementor in the 
place where the heart should have been; it was 
thrown backward, weightless as darkness, and as the 
stag charged, the dementor swooped away, batlike 
and defeated. 

몮THIS WAY!몯 Harry shouted at the stag. Wheeling 
around, he sprinted down the alleyway, holding the lit 
wand aloft. 몮DUDLEY? DUDLEY!몯 

He had run barely a dozen steps when he reached 
them: Dudley was curled on the ground, his arms 
clamped over his face; a second dementor was 
crouching low over him, gripping his wrists in its 
slimy hands, prizing them slowly, almost lovingly 
apart, lowering its hooded head toward Dudley몭s face 
as though about to kiss him... 

몮GET IT!몯 Harry bellowed, and with a rushing, roaring 
sound, the silver stag he had conjured came galloping 
back past him. The dementor몭s eyeless face was 

| 24 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




barely an inch from Dudley몭s when the silver antlers 
caught it; the thing was thrown up into the air and, 
like its fellow, it soared away and was absorbed into 
the darkness. The stag cantered to the end of the 
alleyway and dissolved into silver mist. 

Moon, stars, and streetlamps burst back into life. A 
warm breeze swept the alleyway. Trees rustled in 
neighboring gardens and the mundane rumble of cars 
in Magnolia Crescent filled the air again. Harry stood 
quite still, all his senses vibrating, taking in the 
abrupt return to normality. After a moment he 
became aware that his T-shirt was sticking to him; he 
was drenched in sweat. 

He could not believe what had just happened. 
Dementors here, in Little Whinging . . . 

Dudley lay curled up on the ground, whimpering and 
shaking. Harry bent down to see whether he was in a 
fit state to stand up, but then heard loud, running 
footsteps behind him; instinctively raising his wand 
again, he spun on his heel to face the newcomer. 

Mrs. Figg, their batty old neighbor, came panting into 
sight. Her grizzled gray hair was escaping from its 
hairnet, a clanking string shopping bag was swinging 
from her wrist, and her feet were halfway out of her 
tartan carpet slippers. Harry made to stow his wand 
hurriedly out of sight, but 멪 

몮Don몭t put it away, idiot boy!몯 she shrieked. 몮What if 
there are more of them around? Oh, I몭m going to kill 
Mundungus Fletcher!몯 



| 





A PECK OF OWLS 

몮What?몯 said Harry blankly. 

몮He left!몯 said Mrs. Figg, wringing her hands. 몮Left to 
see someone about a batch of cauldrons that fell off 
the back of a broom! I told him I몭d flay him alive if he 
went, and now look! Dementors! It몭s just lucky I put 
Mr. Tibbies on the case! But we haven몭t got time to 
stand around! Hurry, now, we몭ve got to get you back! 
Oh, the trouble this is going to cause! I will kill him!몯 

몮But 멪 몯 

The revelation that his batty old cat-obsessed 
neighbor knew what dementors were was almost as 
big a shock to Harry as meeting two of them down the 
alleyway. 몮You몭re 멪 you몭re a witch?몯 

몮I몭m a Squib, as Mundungus knows full well, so how 
on earth was I supposed to help you fight off 
dementors? He left you completely without cover 
when I warned him 멪 몯 



| 



몮This bloke Mundungus has been following me? Hang 
on 멪 it was him). He Disapparated from the front of 
my house!몯 

몮Yes, yes, yes, but luckily I몭d stationed Mr. Tibbies 
under a car just in case, and Mr. Tibbies came and 
warned me, but by the time I got to your house you몭d 
gone 멪 and now 멪 oh, what몭s Dumbledore going to 
say? You!몯 she shrieked at Dudley, still supine on the 
alley floor. 몮Get your fat bottom off the ground, 
quick!몯 

몮You know Dumbledore?몯 said Harry, staring at her. 

몮Of course I know Dumbledore, who doesn몭t know 
Dumbledore? But come on 멪 I몭ll be no help if they 
come back, I몭ve never so much as Transfigured a 
teabag 멪 몯 

She stooped down, seized one of Dudley몭s massive 
arms in her wizened hands, and tugged. 

몮Get up, you useless lump, get up!몯 

But Dudley either could not or would not move. He 
was still on the ground, trembling and ashen-faced, 
his mouth shut very tight. 

몮I몭ll do it.몯 Harry took hold of Dudley몭s arm and 
heaved: With an enormous effort he managed to hoist 
Dudley to his feet. Dudley seemed to be on the point 
of fainting: His small eyes were rolling in their sockets 
and sweat was beading his face; the moment Harry let 
go of him he swayed dangerously. 

몮Hurry up!몯 said Mrs. Figg hysterically. 

Harry pulled one of Dudley몭s massive arms around 
his own shoulders and dragged him toward the road, 

| 27 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




sagging slightly under his weight. Mrs. Figg tottered 
along in front of them, peering anxiously around the 
corner. 

몮Keep your wand out,몯 she told Harry, as they entered 
Wisteria Walk. 몮Never mind the Statute of Secrecy 
now, there몭s going to be hell to pay anyway, we might 
as well be hanged for a dragon as an egg. Talk about 
the Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery ... 
This was exactly what Dumbledore was afraid of 멪 
what몭s that at the end of the street? Oh, it몭s just Mr. 
Prentice... Don몭t put your wand away, boy, don몭t I 
keep telling you I몭m no use?몯 

It was not easy to hold a wand steady and carry 
Dudley along at the same time. Harry gave his cousin 
an impatient dig in the ribs, but Dudley seemed to 
have lost all desire for independent movement. He 
was slumped on Harry몭s shoulder, his large feet 
dragging along the ground. 

몮Why didn몭t you tell me you몭re a Squib?몯 Harry asked 
Mrs. Figg, panting with the effort to keep walking. 몮All 
those times I came round your house 멪 why didn몭t 
you say anything?몯 

몮Dumbledore 몭s orders. I was to keep an eye on you 
but not say anything, you were too young. I몭m sorry I 
gave you such a miserable time, but the Dursleys 
would never have let you come if they몭d thought you 
enjoyed it. It wasn몭t easy, you know... But oh my 
word,몯 she said tragically, wringing her hands once 
more, 몮when Dumbledore hears about this 멪 how 
could Mundungus have left, he was supposed to be 
on duty until midnight 멪 where is he? How am I 
going to tell Dumbledore what몭s happened, I can몭t 
Apparate 멪 몯 



| 




몮I몭ve got an owl, you can borrow her,몯 Harry groaned, 
wondering whether his spine was going to snap under 
Dudley몭s weight. 

몮Harry, you don몭t understand! Dumbledore will need 
to act as quickly as possible, the Ministry have their 
own ways of detecting underage magic, they몭ll know 
already, you mark my words 멪 몯 

몮But I was getting rid of dementors, I had to use 
magic 멪 they몭re going to be more worried what 
dementors were doing floating around Wisteria Walk, 
surely?몯 

몮Oh my dear, I wish it were so but I몭m afraid 멪 
MUNDUNGUS FLETCHER, I AM GOING TO KILL 
YOU!몯 

There was a loud crack and a strong smell of mingled 
drink and stale tobacco filled the air as a squat, 
unshaven man in a tattered overcoat materialized 
right in front of them. He had short bandy legs, long 
straggly ginger hair, and bloodshot baggy eyes that 
gave him the doleful look of a basset hound; he was 
also clutching a silvery bundle that Harry recognized 
at once as an Invisibility Cloak. 

몮 몭S몭 up, Figgy?몯 he said, staring from Mrs. Figg to 
Harry and Dudley. 몮What 몭appened to staying 
undercover?몯 

몮I몭ll give you undercover!몯 cried Mrs. Figg. 몮Dementors, 
you useless, skiving sneak thief!몯 

몮Dementors?몯 repeated Mundungus, aghast. 
몮Dementors here?몯 



| 




몮Yes, here, you worthless pile of bat droppings, here!몯 
shrieked Mrs. Figg. 몮Dementors attacking the boy on 
your watch!몯 

몮Blimey,몯 said Mundungus weakly, looking from Mrs. 
Figg to Harry and back again. 몮Blimey, I ...몯 

몮And you off buying stolen cauldrons! Didn몭t I tell you 
not to go? Didn몭t i?몯 

몮I 멪 well, I 멪 몯 Mundungus looked deeply 
uncomfortable. 몮It ... it was a very good business 
opportunity, see ...몯 

Mrs. Figg raised the arm from which her string bag 
dangled and whacked Mundungus around the face 
and neck with it; judging by the clanking noise it 
made it was full of cat food. 

몮Ouch 멪 gerroff 멪 gerroff, you mad old bat! 

Someone몭s gotta tell Dumbledore!몯 

몮Yes 멪 they 멪 have!몯 yelled Mrs. Figg, still swinging 
the bag of cat food at every bit of Mundungus she 
could reach. 몮And 멪 it 멪 had 멪 better 멪 be 멪 you 멪 
and 멪 you 멪 can 멪 tell 멪 him 멪 why 멪 you 멪 
weren몭t 멪 there 멪 to 멪 help!몯 

몮Keep your 몭airnet on!몯 said Mundungus, his arms 
over his head, cowering. 몮I몭m going, I몭m going!몯 

And with another loud crack, he vanished. 

몮I hope Dumbledore murders him!몯 said Mrs. Figg 
furiously. 몮Now come on, Harry, what are you waiting 
for?몯 

Harry decided not to waste his remaining breath on 
pointing out that he could barely walk under Dudley몭s 

| 30 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




bulk. He gave the semiconscious Dudley a heave and 
staggered onward. 

몮I몭ll take you to the door,몯 said Mrs. Figg, as they 
turned into Privet Drive. 몮Just in case there are more 
of them around... Oh my word, what a catastrophe ... 
and you had to fight them off yourself . . . and 
Dumbledore said we were to keep you from doing 
magic at all costs... Well, it몭s no good crying over 
spilled potion, I suppose ... but the cat몭s among the 
pixies now ...몯 

몮So,몯 Harry panted, 몮Dumbledore 몭s ... been having ... 
me followed?몯 

몮Of course he has,몯 said Mrs. Figg impatiently. 몮Did 
you expect him to let you wander around on your own 
after what happened in June? Good Lord, boy, they 
told me you were intelligent... Right ... get inside and 
stay there,몯 she said as they reached number four. 몮I 
expect someone will be in touch with you soon 
enough.몯 

몮What are you going to do?몯 asked Harry quickly. 

몮I몭m going straight home,몯 said Mrs. Figg, staring 
around the dark street and shuddering. 몮I몭ll need to 
wait for more instructions. Just stay in the house. 
Good night.몯 

몮Hang on, don몭t go yet! I want to know 멪 몯 

But Mrs. Figg had already set off at a trot, carpet 
slippers flopping, string bag clanking. 

몮Wait!몯 Harry shouted after her; he had a million 
questions to ask anyone who was in contact with 
Dumbledore; but within seconds Mrs. Figg was 
swallowed by the darkness. Scowling, Harry 

| 31 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




readjusted Dudley on his shoulder and made his 
slow, painful way up number four몭s garden path. 

The hall light was on. Harry stuck his wand back 
inside the waistband of his jeans, rang the bell, and 
watched Aunt Petunia몭s outline grow larger and 
larger, oddly distorted by the rippling glass in the 
front door. 

몮Diddy! About time too, I was getting quite 멪 quite 멪 
Diddy, what몭s the matter?몯 

Harry looked sideways at Dudley and ducked out 
from under his arm just in time. Dudley swayed for a 
moment on the spot, his face pale green, then he 
opened his mouth at last and vomited all over the 
doormat. 

몮DIDDY! Diddy, what몭s the matter with you? Vernon? 
VERNON!몯 

Harry몭s uncle came galumphing out of the living 
room, walrus mustache blowing hither and thither as 
it always did when he was agitated. He hurried 
forward to help Aunt Petunia negotiate a weak-kneed 
Dudley over the threshold while avoiding stepping in 
the pool of sick. 

몮He몭s ill, Vernon!몯 

몮What is it, son? What몭s happened? Did Mrs. Polkiss 
give you something foreign for tea?몯 

몮Why are you all covered in dirt, darling? Have you 
been lying on the ground?몯 

몮Hang on 멪 you haven몭t been mugged, have you, 
son?몯 



| 




Aunt Petunia screamed. 



몮Phone the police, Vernon! Phone the police! Diddy, 
darling, speak to Mummy! What did they do to you?몯 

In all the kerfuffle, nobody seemed to have noticed 
Harry, which suited him perfectly. He managed to slip 
inside just before Uncle Vernon slammed the door 
and while the Dursleys made their noisy progress 
down the hall toward the kitchen, Harry moved 
carefully and quietly toward the stairs. 

몮Who did it, son? Give us names. Well get them, don몭t 
worry.몯 

몮Shh! He몭s trying to say something, Vernon! What is 
it, Diddy? Tell Mummy!몯 

Harry몭s foot was on the bottommost stair when 
Dudley found his voice. 

몮Him몯 

Harry froze, foot on the stair, face screwed up, braced 
for the explosion. 

몮BOY! COME HERE!몯 

With a feeling of mingled dread and anger, Harry 
removed his foot slowly from the stair and turned to 
follow the Dursleys. 

The scrupulously clean kitchen had an oddly unreal 
glitter after the darkness outside. Aunt Petunia was 
ushering Dudley into a chair; he was still very green 
and clammy looking. Uncle Vernon was standing in 
front of the draining board, glaring at Harry through 
tiny, narrowed eyes. 



| 




몮What have you done to my son?몯 he said in a 
menacing growl. 



몮Nothing,몯 said Harry, knowing perfectly well that 
Uncle Vernon wouldn몭t believe him. 

몮What did he do to you, Diddy?몯 Aunt Petunia said in 
a quavering voice, now sponging sick from the front of 
Dudley몭s leather jacket. 몮Was it 멪 was it you-know- 
what, darling? Did he use 멪 his thing?몯 

Slowly, tremulously, Dudley nodded. 

몮I didn몭t!몯 Harry said sharply, as Aunt Petunia let out 
a wail and Uncle Vernon raised his fists. 몮I didn몭t do 
anything to him, it wasn몭t me, it was 멪 몯 

But at that precise moment a screech owl swooped in 
through the kitchen window. Narrowly missing the 
top of Uncle Vernon몭s head, it soared across the 
kitchen, dropped the large parchment envelope it was 
carrying in its beak at Harry몭s feet, and turned 
gracefully, the tips of its wings just brushing the top 
of the fridge, then zoomed outside again and off 
across the garden. 

몮OWLS!몯 bellowed Uncle Vernon, the well-worn vein in 
his temple pulsing angrily as he slammed the kitchen 
window shut. 몮OWLS AGAIN! I WILL NOT HAVE ANY 
MORE OWLS IN MY HOUSE!몯 

But Harry was already ripping open the envelope and 
pulling out the letter inside, his heart pounding 
somewhere in the region of his Adam몭s apple. 

Dear Mr. Potter, 

We have received intelligence that you performed the 
Patronus Charm at twenty-three minutes past nine this 

| 34 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




evening in a Muggle-inhabited area and in the 
presence of a Muggle. 

The severity of this breach of the Decree for the 
Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery has 
resulted in your expulsion from Hog warts School of 
Witchcraft and Wizardry. Ministry representatives will 
be calling at your place of residence shortly to destroy 
your wand. 

As you have already received an official warning for a 
previous offense under section 13 of the International 
Confederation of Wizards몭 Statute of Secrecy, we regret 
to inform you that your presence is required at a 
disciplinary hearing at the Ministry of Magic at 9 a. m. 
on August 12th. 

Hoping you are well, 

Yours sincerely, 

Mafalda Hopkirk 

IMPROPER USE OF MAGIC OFFICE 
Ministry of Magic 

Harry read the letter through twice. He was only 
vaguely aware of Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia 
talking in the vicinity. Inside his head, all was icy and 
numb. One fact had penetrated his consciousness 
like a paralyzing dart. He was expelled from 
Hogwarts. It was all over. He was never going back. 

He looked up at the Dursleys. Uncle Vernon was 
purple-faced, shouting, his fists still raised; Aunt 
Petunia had her arms around Dudley, who was 
retching again. 



| 




Harry몭s temporarily stupefied brain seemed to 
reawaken. Ministry representatives will be calling at 
your place of residence shortly to destroy your wand. 
There was only one thing for it. He would have to run 
멪 now. Where he was going to go, Harry didn몭t know, 
but he was certain of one thing: At Hogwarts or 
outside it, he needed his wand. In an almost 
dreamlike state, he pulled his wand out and turned to 
leave the kitchen. 

몮Where d몭you think you몭re going?몯 yelled Uncle 
Vernon. When Harry didn몭t reply, he pounded across 
the kitchen to block the doorway into the hall. 몮I 
haven몭t finished with you, boy!몯 

몮Get out of the way,몯 said Harry quietly. 

몮You몭re going to stay here and explain how my son 멪 몯 

몮If you don몭t get out of the way I몭m going to jinx you,몯 
said Harry, raising the wand. 

몮You can몭t pull that one on me!몯 snarled Uncle 
Vernon. 몮I know you몭re not allowed to use it outside 
that madhouse you call a school!몯 

몮The madhouse has chucked me out,몯 said Harry. 몮So 
I can do whatever I like. You몭ve got three seconds. 

One 멪 two 멪 몯 

A resounding CRACK filled the kitchen; Aunt Petunia 
screamed, Uncle Vernon yelled and ducked, but for 
the third time that night Harry was staring for the 
source of a disturbance he had not made. He spotted 
it at once: A dazed and ruffled-looking barn owl was 
sitting outside on the kitchen sill, having just collided 
with the closed window. 



| 




Ignoring Uncle Vernon몭s anguished yell of 몮OWLS!몯 
Harry crossed the room at a run and wrenched the 
window open again. The owl stuck out its leg, to 
which a small roll of parchment was tied, shook its 
feathers, and took off the moment Harry had pulled 
off the letter. Hands shaking, Harry unfurled the 
second message, which was written very hastily and 
blotchily in black ink. 

Harry 멪 

Dumbledore몭s just arrived at the Ministry, and he몭s 
trying to sort it all out. DO NOT LEAVE YOUR AUNT 
AND UNCLE몭S HOUSE. DO NOT DO ANYMORE 
MAGIC. DO NOT SURRENDER YOUR WAND. 

Arthur Weasley 

Dumbledore was trying to sort it all out... What did 
that mean? How much power did Dumbledore have to 
override the Ministry of Magic? Was there a chance 
that he might be allowed back to Hogwarts, then? A 
small shoot of hope burgeoned in Harry몭s chest, 
almost immediately strangled by panic 멪 how was he 
supposed to refuse to surrender his wand without 
doing magic? He몭d have to duel with the Ministry 
representatives, and if he did that, he몭d be lucky to 
escape Azkaban, let alone expulsion. 

His mind was racing. . . He could run for it and risk 
being captured by the Ministry, or stay put and wait 
for them to find him here. He was much more 
tempted by the former course, but he knew that Mr. 
Weasley had his best interests at heart ... and, after 
all, Dumbledore had sorted out much worse than this 
before... 

몮Right,몯 Harry said, 몮I몭ve changed my mind, I몭m 
staying.몯 

| 37 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




He flung himself down at the kitchen table and faced 
Dudley and Aunt Petunia. The Dursleys appeared 
taken aback at his abrupt change of mind. Aunt 
Petunia glanced despairingly at Uncle Vernon. The 
vein in Uncle Vernon몭s purple temple was throbbing 
worse than ever. 

몮Who are all these ruddy owls from?몯 he growled. 

몮The first one was from the Ministry of Magic, 
expelling me,몯 said Harry calmly; he was straining his 
ears to catch noises outside in case the Ministry 
representatives were approaching, and it was easier 
and quieter to answer Uncle Vernon몭s questions than 
to have him start raging and bellowing. 몮The second 
one was from my friend Ron몭s dad, he works at the 
Ministry.몯 

몮Ministry of Magic?몯 bellowed Uncle Vernon. 몮People 
like you in government? Oh this explains everything, 
everything, no wonder the country몭s going to the 
dogs...몯 

When Harry did not respond, Uncle Vernon glared at 
him, then spat, 몮And why have you been expelled?몯 

몮Because I did magic.몯 

몮AHA!몯 roared Uncle Vernon, slamming his fist down 
on the top of the fridge, which sprang open; several of 
Dudley몭s low-fat snacks toppled out and burst on the 
floor. 몮So you admit it! What did you do to Dudley?몯 

몮Nothing,몯 said Harry, slightly less calmly. 몮That 
wasn몭t me 멪 몯 

몮Was,몯 muttered Dudley unexpectedly, and Uncle 
Vernon and Aunt Petunia instantly made flapping 



| 




gestures at Harry to quiet him while they both bent 
low over Dudley. 

몮Go on, son,몯 said Uncle Vernon, 몮what did he do?몯 

몮Tell us, darling,몯 whispered Aunt Petunia. 

몮Pointed his wand at me,몯 Dudley mumbled. 

몮Yeah, I did, but I didn몭t use 멪 몯 Harry began angrily, 
but ... 

몮SHUT UP!몯 roared Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia in 
unison. 몮Go on, son,몯 repeated Uncle Vernon, 
mustache blowing about furiously. 

몮All dark,몯 Dudley said hoarsely, shuddering. 
몮Everything dark. And then I h-heard . . . things. Inside 
m-my head ...몯 

Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia exchanged looks of 
utter horror. If their least favorite thing in the world 
was magic, closely followed by neighbors who cheated 
more than they did on the hosepipe ban, people who 
heard voices were definitely in the bottom ten. They 
obviously thought Dudley was losing his mind. 

몮What sort of things did you hear, popkin?몯 breathed 
Aunt Petunia, very white-faced and with tears in her 
eyes. 

But Dudley seemed incapable of saying. He 
shuddered again and shook his large blond head, and 
despite the sense of numb dread that had settled on 
Harry since the arrival of the first owl, he felt a 
certain curiosity. Dementors caused a person to relive 
the worst moments of their life... What would spoiled, 
pampered, bullying Dudley have been forced to hear? 



| 




몮How come you fell over, son?몯 said Uncle Vernon in 
an unnaturally quiet voice, the kind of voice he would 
adopt at the bedside of a very ill person. 

몮T-tripped,몯 said Dudley shakily. 몮And then 멪 몯 

He gestured at his massive chest. Harry understood: 
Dudley was remembering the clammy cold that filled 
the lungs as hope and happiness were sucked out of 
you. 

몮Horrible,몯 croaked Dudley. 몮Cold. Really cold.몯 

몮Okay,몯 said Uncle Vernon in a voice of forced calm, 
while Aunt Petunia laid an anxious hand on Dudley몭s 
forehead to feel his temperature. 몮What happened 
then, Dudders?몯 

몮Felt ... felt ... felt ... as if... as if ...몯 

몮As if you몭d never be happy again,몯 Harry supplied 
tonelessly. 

몮Yes,몯 Dudley whispered, still trembling. 

몮So,몯 said Uncle Vernon, voice restored to full and 
considerable volume as he straightened up. 몮So you 
put some crackpot spell on my son so he몭d hear 
voices and believe he was 멪 was doomed to misery, 
or something, did you?몯 

몮How many times do I have to tell you?몯 said Harry, 
temper and voice rising together. 몮It wasn몭t me\ It was 
a couple of dementors!몯 

몮A couple of 멪 what몭s this codswallop?몯 

몮De 멪 men 멪 tors,몯 said Harry slowly and clearly. 
몮Two of them.몯 

| 40 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




몮And what the ruddy hell are dementors?몯 



몮They guard the wizard prison, Azkaban,몯 said Aunt 
Petunia. 

Two seconds몭 ringing silence followed these words and 
then Aunt Petunia clapped her hand over her mouth 
as though she had let slip a disgusting swear word. 
Uncle Vernon was goggling at her. Harry몭s brain 
reeled. Mrs. Figg was one thing 멪 but Aunt Petunia? 

몮How d몭you know that?몯 he asked her, astonished. 

Aunt Petunia looked quite appalled with herself. She 
glanced at Uncle Vernon in fearful apology, then 
lowered her hand slightly to reveal her horsey teeth. 

몮I heard 멪 that awful boy 멪 telling her about them 멪 
years ago,몯 she said jerkily. 

몮If you mean my mum and dad, why don몭t you use 
their names?몯 said Harry loudly, but Aunt Petunia 
ignored him. She seemed horribly flustered. 

Harry was stunned. Except for one outburst years 
ago, in the course of which Aunt Petunia had 
screamed that Harry몭s mother had been a freak, he 
had never heard her mention her sister. He was 
astounded that she had remembered this scrap of 
information about the magical world for so long, when 
she usually put all her energies into pretending it 
didn몭t exist. 

Uncle Vernon opened his mouth, closed it again, 
opened it once more, shut it, then, apparently 
struggling to remember how to talk, opened it for a 
third time and croaked, 몮So 멪 so 멪 they 멪 er 멪 they 
멪 er 멪 they actually exist, do they 멪 er 멪 dementy- 
whatsits?몯 

| 41 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




Aunt Petunia nodded. 



Uncle Vernon looked from Aunt Petunia to Dudley to 
Harry as if hoping somebody was going to shout 
몮April Fool!몯 When nobody did, he opened his mouth 
yet again, but was spared the struggle to find more 
words by the arrival of the third owl of the evening, 
which zoomed through the still-open window like a 
feathery cannonball and landed with a clatter on the 
kitchen table, causing all three of the Dursleys to 
jump with fright. Harry tore a second official-looking 
envelope from the owl몭s beak and ripped it open as 
the owl swooped back out into the night. 

몮Enough 멪 effing 멪 owls ...몯 muttered Uncle Vernon 
distractedly, stomping over to the window and 
slamming it shut again. 

Dear Mr. Potter, 

Further to our letter of approximately twenty-two 
minutes ago, the Ministry of Magic has revised its 
decision to destroy your wand forthwith. You may 
retain your wand until your disciplinary hearing on 
12th August, at which time an official decision will be 
taken. 

Following discussions with the Headmaster of 
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, the 
Ministry has agreed that the question of your expulsion 
will also be decided at that time. You should therefore 
consider yourself suspended from school pending 
further inquiries. 

With best wishes, 

Yours sincerely, 

Mafalda Hopkirk 

| 42 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




IMPROPER USE OF MAGIC OFFICE 



Ministry of Magic 

Harry read this letter through three times in quick 
succession. The miserable knot in his chest loosened 
slightly at the thought that he was not definitely 
expelled, though his fears were by no means 
banished. Everything seemed to hang on this hearing 
on the twelfth of August. 

몮Well?몯 said Uncle Vernon, recalling Harry to his 
surroundings. 몮What now? Have they sentenced you 
to anything? Do your lot have the death penalty?몯 he 
added as a hopeful afterthought. 

몮I몭ve got to go to a hearing,몯 said Harry. 

몮And they몭ll sentence you there?몯 

몮I suppose so.몯 

몮I won몭t give up hope, then,몯 said Uncle Vernon 
nastily. 

몮Well, if that몭s all,몯 said Harry, getting to his feet. He 
was desperate to be alone, to think, perhaps to send a 
letter to Ron, Hermione, or Sirius. 

몮NO, IT RUDDY WELL IS NOT ALL!몯 bellowed Uncle 
Vernon. 몮SIT BACK DOWN!몯 

몮What now?몯 said Harry impatiently. 

몮DUDLEY!몯 roared Uncle Vernon. 몮I want to know 
exactly what happened to my son!몯 

몮FINE!몯 yelled Harry, and in his temper, red and gold 
sparks shot out of the end of his wand, still clutched 

| 43 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




in his hand. All three Dursleys flinched, looking 
terrified. 

몮Dudley and I were in the alleyway between Magnolia 
Crescent and Wisteria Walk,몯 said Harry, speaking 
fast, fighting to control his temper. 몮Dudley thought 
he몭d be smart with me, I pulled out my wand but 
didn몭t use it. Then two dementors turned up 멪 몯 

몮But what ARE dementoids?몯 asked Uncle Vernon 
furiously. 몮What do they DO?몯 

몮I told you 멪 they suck all the happiness out of you,몯 
said Harry, 몮and if they get the chance, they kiss you 



몮Kiss you?몯 said Uncle Vernon, his eyes popping 
slightly. 몮Kiss you?몯 

몮It몭s what they call it when they suck the soul out of 
your mouth.몯 

Aunt Petunia uttered a soft scream. 

몮His soul? They didn몭t take 멪 he몭s still got his 멪 몯 

She seized Dudley by the shoulders and shook him, 
as though testing to see whether she could hear his 
soul rattling around inside him. 

몮Of course they didn몭t get his soul, you몭d know if they 
had,몯 said Harry, exasperated. 

몮Fought 몭em off, did you, son?몯 said Uncle Vernon 
loudly, with the appearance of a man struggling to 
bring the conversation back onto a plane he 
understood. 몮Gave 몭em the old one-two, did you?몯 



| 44 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




몮You can몭t give a dementor the old one-two,몯 said 
Harry through clenched teeth. 

몮Why몭s he all right, then?몯 blustered Uncle Vernon. 
몮Why isn몭t he all empty, then?몯 

몮Because I used the Patronus 멪 몯 

WHOOSH. With a clattering, a whirring of wings, and 
a soft fall of dust, a fourth owl came shooting out of 
the kitchen fireplace. 

몮FOR GOD몭S SAKE!몯 roared Uncle Vernon, pulling 
great clumps of hair out of his mustache, something 
he hadn몭t been driven to in a long time. 몮I WILL NOT 
HAVE OWLS HERE, I WILL NOT TOLERATE THIS, I 
TELL YOU!몯 

But Harry was already pulling a roll of parchment 
from the owl몭s leg. He was so convinced that this 
letter had to be from Dumbledore, explaining 
everything 멪 the dementors, Mrs. Figg, what the 
Ministry was up to, how he, Dumbledore, intended to 
sort everything out 멪 that for the first time in his life 
he was disappointed to see Sirius몭s handwriting. 
Ignoring Uncle Vernon몭s ongoing rant about owls and 
narrowing his eyes against a second cloud of dust as 
the most recent owl took off back up the chimney, 
Harry read Sirius몭s message. 

Arthur몭s just told us what몭s happened. 

Don몭t leave the house again, whatever you do. 

Harry found this such an inadequate response to 
everything that had happened tonight that he turned 
the piece of parchment over, looking for the rest of the 
letter, but there was nothing there. 



| 45 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




And now his temper was rising again. Wasn몭t 
anybody going to say 몮well done몯 for fighting off two 
dementors single-handedly? Both Mr. Weasley and 
Sirius were acting as though he몭d misbehaved and 
they were saving their tellings-off until they could 
ascertain how much damage had been done. 

몮 멪 a peck, I mean, pack of owls shooting in and out 
of my house and I won몭t have it, boy, I won몭t 멪 몯 

몮I can몭t stop the owls coming,몯 Harry snapped, 
crushing Sirius몭s letter in his fist. 

몮I want the truth about what happened tonight!몯 
barked Uncle Vernon. 몮If it was demenders who hurt 
Dudley, how come you몭ve been expelled? You did you- 
know-what, you몭ve admitted it!몯 

Harry took a deep, steadying breath. His head was 
beginning to ache again. He wanted more than 
anything to get out of the kitchen, away from the 
Dursleys. 

몮I did the Patronus Charm to get rid of the 
dementors,몯 he said, forcing himself to remain calm. 
몮It몭s the only thing that works against them.몯 

몮But what were dementoids doing in Little Whinging?몯 
said Uncle Vernon in tones of outrage. 

몮Couldn몭t tell you,몯 said Harry wearily. 몮No idea.몯 

His head was pounding in the glare of the strip 
lighting now. His anger was ebbing away. He felt 
drained, exhausted. The Dursleys were all staring at 
him. 

몮It몭s you,몯 said Uncle Vernon forcefully. 몮It몭s got 
something to do with you, boy, I know it. Why else 

| 46 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




would they turn up here? Why else would they be 
down that alleyway? You몭ve got to be the only 멪 the 
only 멪 몯 Evidently he couldn몭t bring himself to say the 
word 몮wizard.몯 몮The only you-know-what for miles.몯 

몮I don몭t know why they were here...몯 

But at these words of Uncle Vernon몭s, Harry몭s 
exhausted brain ground back into action. Why had 
the dementors come to Little Whinging? How could it 
be coincidence that they had arrived in the alleyway 
where Harry was? Had they been sent? Had the 
Ministry of Magic lost control of the dementors, had 
they deserted Azkaban and joined Voldemort, as 
Dumbledore had predicted they would? 

몮These demembers guard some weirdos몭 prison?몯 said 
Uncle Vernon, lumbering in the wake of Harry몭s train 
of thought. 

몮Yes,몯 said Harry. 

If only his head would stop hurting, if only he could 
just leave the kitchen and get to his dark bedroom 
and think... 

몮Oho! They were coming to arrest you!몯 said Uncle 
Vernon, with the triumphant air of a man reaching an 
unassailable conclusion. 몮That몭s it, isn몭t it, boy? 

You몭re on the run from the law!몯 

몮Of course I몭m not,몯 said Harry, shaking his head as 
though to scare off a fly, his mind racing now. 

몮Then why 멪 ?몯 

몮He must have sent them,몯 said Harry quietly, more to 
himself than to Uncle Vernon. 



| 47 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




몮What몭s that? Who must have sent them?몯 

몮Lord Voldemort,몯 said Harry. 

He registered dimly how strange it was that the 
Dursleys, who flinched, winced, and squawked if they 
heard words like 몮wizard,몯 몮magic,몯 or 몮wand,몯 could 
hear the name of the most evil wizard of all time 
without the slightest tremor. 

몮Lord 멪 hang on,몯 said Uncle Vernon, his face 
screwed up, a look of dawning comprehension in his 
piggy eyes. 몮I몭ve heard that name ... that was the one 
who ...몯 

몮Murdered my parents, yes,몯 Harry said. 

몮But he몭s gone,몯 said Uncle Vernon impatiently, 
without the slightest sign that the murder of Harry몭s 
parents might be a painful topic to anybody. 몮That 
giant bloke said so. He몭s gone.몯 

몮He몭s back,몯 said Harry heavily. 

It felt very strange to be standing here in Aunt 
Petunia몭s surgically clean kitchen, beside the top-of- 
the-range fridge and the wide-screen television, and 
talking calmly of Lord Voldemort to Uncle Vernon. 

The arrival of the dementors in Little Whinging 
seemed to have caused a breach in the great, invisible 
wall that divided the relentlessly non-magical world of 
Privet Drive and the world beyond. Harry몭s two lives 
had somehow become fused and everything had been 
turned upside down: The Dursleys were asking for 
details about the magical world and Mrs. Figg knew 
Albus Dumbledore; dementors were soaring around 
Little Whinging and he might never go back to 
Hogwarts. Harry몭s head throbbed more painfully. 



| 48 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




몮Back?몯 whispered Aunt Petunia. 

She was looking at Harry as she had never looked at 
him before. And all of a sudden, for the very first time 
in his life, Harry fully appreciated that Aunt Petunia 
was his mother몭s sister. He could not have said why 
this hit him so very powerfully at this moment. All he 
knew was that he was not the only person in the 
room who had an inkling of what Lord Voldemort 
being back might mean. Aunt Petunia had never in 
her life looked at him like that before. Her large, pale 
eyes (so unlike her sister몭s) were not narrowed in 
dislike or anger: They were wide and fearful. The 
furious pretense that Aunt Petunia had maintained 
all Harry몭s life 멪 that there was no magic and no 
world other than the world she inhabited with Uncle 
Vernon 멪 seemed to have fallen away. 

몮Yes,몯 Harry said, talking directly to Aunt Petunia 
now. 몮He came back a month ago. I saw him.몯 

Her hands found Dudley몭s massive leather-clad 
shoulders and clutched them. 

몮Hang on,몯 said Uncle Vernon, looking from his wife 
to Harry and back again, apparently dazed and 
confused by the unprecedented understanding that 
seemed to have sprung up between them. 몮Hang on. 
This Lord Voldything몭s back, you say.몯 

몮Yes.몯 

몮The one who murdered your parents.몯 

몮Yes.몯 

몮And now he몭s sending dismembers after you?몯 

몮Looks like it,몯 said Harry. 

| 49 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




몮I see,몯 said Uncle Vernon, looking from his white- 
faced wife to Harry and hitching up his trousers. He 
seemed to be swelling, his great purple face stretching 
before Harry몭s eyes. 몮Well, that settles it,몯 he said, his 
shirt front straining as he inflated himself, 몮you can 
get out of this house, boy\몯 

몮What?몯 said Harry. 

몮You heard me 멪 OUT!몯 Uncle Vernon bellowed, and 
even Aunt Petunia and Dudley jumped. 몮OUT! OUT! I 
should몭ve done it years ago! Owls treating the place 
like a rest home, puddings exploding, half the lounge 
destroyed, Dudley몭s tail, Marge bobbing around on 
the ceiling, and that flying Ford Anglia 멪 OUT! OUT! 
You몭ve had it! You몭re history! You몭re not staying here if 
some loony몭s after you, you몭re not endangering my 
wife and son, you몭re not bringing trouble down on us, 
if you몭re going the same way as your useless parents, 
I몭ve had it! OUT!몯 

Harry stood rooted to the spot. The letters from the 
Ministry, Mr. Weasley, and Sirius were crushed in his 
left hand. Don몭t leave the house again, whatever you 
do. DO NOT LEA VE YOUR A UNT AND UNCLE몭S 
HOUSE. 

몮You heard me!몯 said Uncle Vernon, bending forward 
now, so that his massive purple face came closer to 
Harry몭s, so that Harry actually felt flecks of spit hit 
his face. 몮Get going! You were all keen to leave half an 
hour ago! I몭m right behind you! Get out and never 
darken our doorstep again! Why we ever kept you in 
the first place I don몭t know. Marge was right, it should 
have been the orphanage, we were too damn soft for 
our own good, thought we could squash it out of you, 
thought we could turn you normal, but you몭ve been 
rotten from the beginning, and I몭ve had enough 멪 
OWLS!몯 

| 50 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




The fifth owl zoomed down the chimney so fast it 
actually hit the floor before zooming into the air again 
with a loud screech. Harry raised his hand to seize 
the letter, which was in a scarlet envelope, but it 
soared straight over his head, flying directly at Aunt 
Petunia, who let out a scream and ducked, her arms 
over her face. The owl dropped the red envelope on 
her head, turned, and flew straight up the chimney 
again. 

Harry darted forward to pick up the letter, but Aunt 
Petunia beat him to it. 

몮You can open it if you like,몯 said Harry, 몮but I몭ll hear 
what it says anyway. That몭s a Howler.몯 

몮Let go of it, Petunia!몯 roared Uncle Vernon. 몮Don몭t 
touch it, it could be dangerous!몯 

몮It몭s addressed to me,몯 said Aunt Petunia in a shaking 
voice. 몮It몭s addressed to me, Vernon, look! Mrs. 

Petunia Dursley, The Kitchen, Number Four, Privet 
Drive 멪 몯 

She caught her breath, horrified. The red envelope 
had begun to smoke. 

몮Open it!몯 Harry urged her. 몮Get it over with! It몭ll 
happen anyway 멪 몯 

몮No 멪 몯 



Aunt Petunia몭s hand was trembling. She looked wildly 
around the kitchen as though looking for an escape 
route, but too late 멪 the envelope burst into flames. 
Aunt Petunia screamed and dropped it. 



| 




An awful voice filled the kitchen, echoing in the 
confined space, issuing from the burning letter on the 
table. 



몮REMEMBER MY LAST, PETUNIA.몯 

Aunt Petunia looked as though she might faint. She 
sank into the chair beside Dudley, her face in her 
hands. The remains of the envelope smoldered into 
ash in the silence. 

몮What is this?몯 Uncle Vernon said hoarsely. 몮What 멪 

I don몭t 멪 Petunia?몯 

Aunt Petunia said nothing. Dudley was staring 
stupidly at his mother, his mouth hanging open. The 
silence spiraled horribly. Harry was watching his 
aunt, utterly bewildered, his head throbbing fit to 
burst. 

몮Petunia, dear?몯 said Uncle Vernon timidly. 몮P- 
Petunia?몯 

She raised her head. She was still trembling. She 
swallowed. 

몮The boy 멪 the boy will have to stay, Vernon,몯 she 
said weakly. 

몮W-what?몯 

몮He stays,몯 she said. She was not looking at Harry. 

She got to her feet again. 

몮He ... but Petunia ...몯 

몮If we throw him out, the neighbors will talk,몯 she 
said. She was regaining her usual brisk, snappish 
manner rapidly, though she was still very pale. 

| 52 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




몮They몭ll ask awkward questions, they몭ll want to know 
where he몭s gone. We몭ll have to keep him.몯 

Uncle Vernon was deflating like an old tire. 

몮But Petunia, dear 멪 몯 

Aunt Petunia ignored him. She turned to Harry. 

몮You몭re to stay in your room,몯 she said. 몮You몭re not to 
leave the house. Now get to bed.몯 

Harry didn몭t move. 

몮Who was that Howler from?몯 

몮Don몭t ask questions,몯 Aunt Petunia snapped. 

몮Are you in touch with wizards?몯 

몮I told you to get to bed!몯 

몮What did it mean? Remember the last what?몯 

몮Go to bed!몯 

몮How come 멪 ?몯 

몮YOU HEARD YOUR AUNT, NOW GET TO BED!몯 



| 






THE ADVANCED GUARD 

몮Fve just been attacked by dementors and I might be 
expelled from Hogwarts. I want to know what몭s going 
on and when I몭m going to get out of here. 몯 

Harry copied these words onto three separate pieces 
of parchment the moment he reached the desk in his 
dark bedroom. He addressed the first to Sirius, the 
second to Ron, and the third to Hermione. His owl, 
Hedwig, was off hunting; her cage stood empty on the 
desk. Harry paced the bedroom waiting for her to 
come back, his head pounding, his brain too busy for 
sleep even though his eyes stung and itched with 
tiredness. His back ached from carrying Dudley 
home, and the two lumps on his head where the 
window and Dudley had hit him were throbbing 
painfully. 

Up and down he paced, consumed with anger and 
frustration, grinding his teeth and clenching his fists, 
casting angry looks out at the empty, star-strewn sky 
every time he passed the window. Dementors sent to 
get him, Mrs. Figg and Mundungus Fletcher tailing 
| 



him in secret, then suspension from Hogwarts and a 
hearing at the Ministry of Magic 멪 and still no one 
was telling him what was going on. 

And what, what, had that Howler been about? Whose 
voice had echoed so horribly, so menacingly, through 
the kitchen? 

Why was he still trapped here without information? 
Why was everyone treating him like some naughty 
kid? Don몭t do any more magic, stay in the house... 

He kicked his school trunk as he passed it, but far 
from relieving his anger he felt worse, as he now had 
a sharp pain in his toe to deal with in addition to the 
pain in the rest of his body. 

Just as he limped past the window, Hedwig soared 
through it with a soft rustle of wings like a small 
ghost. 

몮About time!몯 Harry snarled, as she landed lightly on 
top of her cage. 몮You can put that down, IVe got work 
for you!몯 

Hedwig몭s large round amber eyes gazed reproachfully 
at him over the dead frog clamped in her beak. 

몮Come here,몯 said Harry, picking up the three small 
rolls of parchment and a leather thong and tying the 
scrolls to her scaly leg. 몮Take these straight to Sirius, 
Ron, and Hermione and don몭t come back here without 
good long replies. Keep pecking them till they몭ve 
written decent-length answers if you몭ve got to. 
Understand?몯 

Hedwig gave a muffled hooting noise, beak still full of 
frog. 



| 




몮Get going, then,몯 said Harry. 

She took off immediately. The moment she몭d gone, 
Harry threw himself down onto his bed without 
undressing and stared at the dark ceiling. In addition 
to every other miserable feeling, he now felt guilty 
that he몭d been irritable with Hedwig; she was the only 
friend he had at number four, Privet Drive. But he몭d 
make it up to her when she came back with Sirius몭s, 
Ron몭s, and Hermione몭s answers. 

They were bound to write back quickly; they couldn몭t 
possibly ignore a dementor attack. He몭d probably 
wake up tomorrow to three fat letters full of sympathy 
and plans for his immediate removal to the Burrow. 
And with that comforting idea, sleep rolled over him, 
stifling all further thought. 

멘k Jc k 



But Hedwig didn몭t return next morning. Harry spent 
the day in his bedroom, leaving it only to go to the 
bathroom. Three times that day Aunt Petunia shoved 
food into his room through the cat flap Uncle Vernon 
had installed three summers ago. Every time Harry 
heard her approaching he tried to question her about 
the Howler, but he might as well have interrogated 
the doorknob for all the answers he got. Otherwise 
the Dursleys kept well clear of his bedroom. Harry 
couldn몭t see the point of forcing his company on 
them; another row would achieve nothing except 
perhaps making him so angry he몭d perform more 
illegal magic. 

So it went on for three whole days. Harry was filled 
alternately with restless energy that made him unable 
to settle to anything, during which he paced his 
bedroom again, furious at the whole lot of them for 



| 




leaving him to stew in this mess, and with a lethargy 
so complete that he could lie on his bed for an hour 
at a time, staring dazedly into space, aching with 
dread at the thought of the Ministry hearing. 

What if they ruled against him? What if he was 
expelled and his wand was snapped in half? What 
would he do, where would he go? He could not return 
to living full-time with the Dursleys, not now that he 
knew the other world, the one to which he really 
belonged... Was it possible that he might be able to 
move into Sirius몭s house, as Sirius had suggested a 
year ago, before he had been forced to flee from the 
Ministry himself? Would he be allowed to live there 
alone, given that he was still underage? Or would the 
matter of where he went next be decided for him; had 
his breach of the International Statute of Secrecy 
been severe enough to land him in a cell in Azkaban? 
Whenever this thought occurred, Harry invariably slid 
off his bed and began pacing again. 

On the fourth night after Hedwig몭s departure Harry 
was lying in one of his apathetic phases, staring at 
the ceiling, his exhausted mind quite blank, when his 
uncle entered his bedroom. Harry looked slowly 
around at him. Uncle Vernon was wearing his best 
suit and an expression of enormous smugness. 

몮We몭re going out,몯 he said. 

몮Sorry?몯 

몮We 멪 that is to say, your aunt, Dudley, and I 멪 are 
going out.몯 

몮Fine,몯 said Harry dully, looking back at the ceiling. 

몮You are not to leave your bedroom while we are 
away.몯 

| 57 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




몮Okay.몯 



몮You are not to touch the television, the stereo, or any 
of our possessions.몯 

몮Right.몯 

몮You are not to steal food from the fridge.몯 

몮Okay.몯 

몮I am going to lock your door.몯 

몮You do that.몯 

Uncle Vernon glared at Harry, clearly suspicious of 
this lack of argument, then stomped out of the room 
and closed the door behind him. Harry heard the key 
turn in the lock and Uncle Vernon몭s footsteps walking 
heavily down the stairs. A few minutes later he heard 
the slamming of car doors, the rumble of an engine, 
and the unmistakable sound of the car sweeping out 
of the drive. 

Harry had no particular feeling about the Dursleys 
leaving. It made no difference to him whether they 
were in the house or not. He could not even summon 
the energy to get up and turn on his bedroom light. 
The room grew steadily darker around him as he lay 
listening to the night sounds through the window he 
kept open all the time, waiting for the blessed 
moment when Hedwig returned. 

The empty house creaked around him. The pipes 
gurgled. Harry lay there in a kind of stupor, thinking 
of nothing, suspended in misery. 

And then, quite distinctly, he heard a crash in the 
kitchen below. 

| 58 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




He sat bolt upright, listening intently. The Dursleys 
couldn몭t be back, it was much too soon, and in any 
case he hadn몭t heard their car. 

There was silence for a few seconds, and then he 
heard voices. 

Burglars, he thought, sliding off the bed onto his feet 
멪 but a split second later it occurred to him that 
burglars would keep their voices down, and whoever 
was moving around in the kitchen was certainly not 
troubling to do so. 

He snatched up his wand from his bedside table and 
stood facing his bedroom door, listening with all his 
might. Next moment he jumped as the lock gave a 
loud click and his door swung open. 

Harry stood motionless, staring through the open 
door at the dark upstairs landing, straining his ears 
for further sounds, but none came. He hesitated for a 
moment and then moved swiftly and silently out of 
his room to the head of the stairs. 

His heart shot upward into his throat. There were 
people standing in the shadowy hall below, 
silhouetted against the streetlight glowing through 
the glass door; eight or nine of them, all, as far as he 
could see, looking up at him. 

몮Lower your wand, boy, before you take someone몭s eye 
out,몯 said a low, growling voice. 

Harry몭s heart was thumping uncontrollably. He knew 
that voice, but he did not lower his wand. 

몮Professor Moody?몯 he said uncertainly. 



| 




몮I don몭t know so much about 몬Professor,몭 몯 growled the 
voice, 몮never got round to much teaching, did I? Get 
down here, we want to see you properly.몯 

Harry lowered his wand slightly but did not relax his 
grip on it, nor did he move. He had very good reason 
to be suspicious. He had recently spent nine months 
in what he had thought was Mad-Eye Moody몭s 
company only to find out that it wasn몭t Moody at all, 
but an impostor; an impostor, moreover, who had 
tried to kill Harry before being unmasked. But before 
he could make a decision about what to do next, a 
second, slightly hoarse voice floated upstairs. 

몮It몭s all right, Harry. We몭ve come to take you away.몯 

Harry몭s heart leapt. He knew that voice too, though he 
hadn몭t heard it for more than a year. 

몮P-Professor Lupin?몯 he said disbelievingly. 몮Is that 
you?몯 

몮Why are we all standing in the dark?몯 said a third 
voice, this one completely unfamiliar, a woman몭s. 
몮Lumos.몯 

A wand tip flared, illuminating the hall with magical 
light. Harry blinked. The people below were crowded 
around the foot of the stairs, gazing intently up at 
him, some craning their heads for a better look. 

Remus Lupin stood nearest to him. Though still quite 
young, Lupin looked tired and rather ill; he had more 
gray hair than when Harry had said good-bye to him, 
and his robes were more patched and shabbier than 
ever. Nevertheless, he was smiling broadly at Harry, 
who tried to smile back through his shock. 



| 




몮Oooh, he looks just like I thought he would,몯 said the 
witch who was holding her lit wand aloft. She looked 
the youngest there; she had a pale heart-shaped face, 
dark twinkling eyes, and short spiky hair that was a 
violent shade of violet. 몮Wotcher, Harry!몯 

몮Yeah, I see what you mean, Remus,몯 said a bald 
black wizard standing farthest back; he had a deep, 
slow voice and wore a single gold hoop in his ear. 몮He 
looks exactly like James.몯 

몮Except the eyes,몯 said a wheezy-voiced, silver-haired 
wizard at the back. 몮Lily몭s eyes.몯 

Mad-Eye Moody, who had long grizzled gray hair and 
a large chunk missing from his nose, was squinting 
suspiciously at Harry through his mismatched eyes. 
One of the eyes was small, dark, and beady, the other 
large, round, and electric blue 멪 the magical eye that 
could see through walls, doors, and the back of 
Moody몭s own head. 

몮Are you quite sure it몭s him, Lupin?몯 he growled. 몮It몭d 
be a nice lookout if we bring back some Death Eater 
impersonating him. We ought to ask him something 
only the real Potter would know. Unless anyone 
brought any Veritaserum?몯 

몮Harry, what form does your Patronus take?몯 said 
Lupin. 

몮A stag,몯 said Harry nervously. 

몮That몭s him, Mad-Eye,몯 said Lupin. 

Harry descended the stairs, very conscious of 
everybody still staring at him, stowing his wand into 
the back pocket of his jeans as he came. 



| 




몮Don몭t put your wand there, boy!몯 roared Moody. 
몮What if it ignited? Better wizards than you have lost 
buttocks, you know!몯 

몮Who d몭you know who몭s lost a buttock?몯 the violet- 
haired woman asked Mad-Eye interestedly. 

몮Never you mind, you just keep your wand out of your 
back pocket!몯 growled Mad-Eye. 몮Elementary wand 
safety, nobody bothers about it anymore...몯 He 
stumped off toward the kitchen. 몮And I saw that,몯 he 
added irritably, as the woman rolled her eyes at the 
ceiling. 

Lupin held out his hand and shook Harry몭s. 

몮How are you?몯 he asked, looking at Harry closely. 
몮F-fine ...몯 

Harry could hardly believe this was real. Four weeks 
with nothing, not the tiniest hint of a plan to remove 
him from Privet Drive, and suddenly a whole bunch of 
wizards was standing matter-of-factly in the house as 
though this were a long-standing arrangement. He 
glanced at the people surrounding Lupin; they were 
still gazing avidly at him. He felt very conscious of the 
fact that he had not combed his hair for four days. 

몮I몭m 멪 you몭re really lucky the Dursleys are out ...몯 he 
mumbled. 

몮Lucky, ha!몯 said the violet-haired woman. 몮It was me 
that lured them out of the way. Sent a letter by 
Muggle post telling them they몭d been short-listed for 
the All-England Best-Kept Suburban Lawn 
Competition. They몭re heading off to the prize-giving 
right now... Or they think they are.몯 



| 




Harry had a fleeting vision of Uncle Vernon몭s face 
when he realized there was no All-England Best-Kept 
Suburban Lawn Competition. 

몮We are leaving, aren몭t we?몯 he asked. 몮Soon?몯 

몮Almost at once,몯 said Lupin, 몮we몭re just waiting for 
the all-clear.몯 

몮Where are we going? The Burrow?몯 Harry asked 
hopefully. 

몮Not the Burrow, no,몯 said Lupin, motioning Harry 
toward the kitchen; the little knot of wizards followed, 
all still eyeing Harry curiously. 몮Too risky. We몭ve set 
up headquarters somewhere undetectable. It몭s taken 
a while...몯 

Mad-Eye Moody was now sitting at the kitchen table 
swigging from a hip flask, his magical eye spinning in 
all directions, taking in the Dursleys몭 many labor- 
saving appliances. 

몮This is Alastor Moody, Harry,몯 Lupin continued, 
pointing toward Moody. 

몮Yeah, I know,몯 said Harry uncomfortably; it felt odd 
to be introduced to somebody he몭d thought he몭d 
known for a year. 

몮And this is Nymphadora 멪 몯 

몮 Don몭t call me Nymphadora, Remus,몯 said the young 
witch with a shudder. 몮It몭s Tonks.몯 

몮 멪 Nymphadora Tonks, who prefers to be known by 
her surname only,몯 finished Lupin. 



| 




몮So would you if your fool of a mother had called you 
몬Nymphadora, 몭 몯 muttered Tonks. 

몮And this is Kingsley Shacklebolt몯 멪 he indicated the 
tall black wizard, who bowed 멪 몮Elphias Doge몯 멪 the 
wheezy-voiced wizard nodded 멪 몮Dedalus Diggle 멪 몯 

몮We몭ve met before,몯 squeaked the excitable Diggle, 
dropping his top hat. 

몮 멪 Emmeline Vance몯 멪 a stately looking witch in an 
emerald-green shawl inclined her head 멪 몮Sturgis 
Podmore몯 멪 a square-jawed wizard with thick, straw- 
colored hair winked 멪 몮and Hestia Jones.몯 A pink- 
cheeked, black-haired witch waved from next to the 
toaster. 

Harry inclined his head awkwardly at each of them as 
they were introduced. He wished they would look at 
something other than him; it was as though he had 
suddenly been ushered onstage. He also wondered 
why so many of them were there. 

몮A surprising number of people volunteered to come 
and get you,몯 said Lupin, as though he had read 
Harry몭s mind; the corners of his mouth twitched 
slightly. 

몮Yeah, well, the more the better,몯 said Moody darkly. 
몮We몭re your guard, Potter.몯 

몮We몭re just waiting for the signal to tell us it몭s safe to 
set off,몯 said Lupin, glancing out of the kitchen 
window. 몮We몭ve got about fifteen minutes.몯 

몮Very clean, aren몭t they, these Muggles?몯 said the 
witch called Tonks, who was looking around the 
kitchen with great interest. 몮My dad몭s Muggle-born 



| 




and he몭s a right old slob. I suppose it varies, just like 
with wizards?몯 

몮Er 멪 yeah,몯 said Harry. 몮Look몯 멪 he turned back to 
Lupin 멪 몮what몭s going on, I haven몭t heard anything 
from anyone, what몭s Vol 멪 ?몯 

Several of the witches and wizards made odd hissing 
noises; Dedalus Diggle dropped his hat again, and 
Moody growled, 몮Shut up\몯 

몮What?몯 said Harry. 

몮We몭re not discussing anything here, it몭s too risky,몯 
said Moody, turning his normal eye on Harry; his 
magical eye remained pointing up at the ceiling. 
몮Damn it,몯 he added angrily, putting a hand up to the 
magical eye, 몮it keeps sticking 멪 ever since that scum 
wore it 멪 몯 

And with a nasty squelching sound much like a 
plunger being pulled from a sink, he popped out his 
eye. 

몮Mad-Eye, you do know that몭s disgusting, don몭t you?몯 
said Tonks conversationally. 

몮Get me a glass of water, would you, Harry?몯 asked 
Moody. 

Harry crossed to the dishwasher, took out a clean 
glass, and filled it with water at the sink, still watched 
eagerly by the band of wizards. Their relentless 
staring was starting to annoy him. 

몮Cheers,몯 said Moody, when Harry handed him the 
glass. He dropped the magical eyeball into the water 
and prodded it up and down; the eye whizzed around, 



| 




staring at them all in turn. 몮I want three-hundred- 
and-sixty degrees visibility on the return journey.몯 

몮How몭re we getting 멪 wherever we몭re going?몯 Harry 
asked. 

몮Brooms,몯 said Lupin. 몮Only way. You몭re too young to 
Apparate, they몭ll be watching the Floo Network, and 
it몭s more than our life몭s worth to set up an 
unauthorized Portkey.몯 

몮Remus says you몭re a good flier,몯 said Kingsley 
Shacklebolt in his deep voice. 

몮He몭s excellent,몯 said Lupin, who was checking his 
watch. 몮Anyway, you몭d better go and get packed, 
Harry, we want to be ready to go when the signal 
comes.몯 

몮I몭ll come and help you,몯 said Tonks brightly. 

She followed Harry back into the hall and up the 
stairs, looking around with much curiosity and 
interest. 

몮Funny place,몯 she said, 몮it몭s a bit too clean, d몭you 
know what I mean? Bit unnatural. Oh, this is better,몯 
she added, as they entered Harry몭s bedroom and he 
turned on the light. 

His room was certainly much messier than the rest of 
the house. Confined to it for four days in a very bad 
mood, Harry had not bothered tidying up after 
himself. Most of the books he owned were strewn over 
the floor where he몭d tried to distract himself with each 
in turn and thrown it aside. Hedwig몭s cage needed 
cleaning out and was starting to smell, and his trunk 
lay open, revealing a jumbled mixture of Muggle 



| 




clothes and wizard몭s robes that had spilled onto the 
floor around it. 

Harry started picking up books and throwing them 
hastily into his trunk. Tonks paused at his open 
wardrobe to look critically at her reflection in the 
mirror on the inside of the door. 

몮You know, I don몭t think purple몭s really my color,몯 she 
said pensively, tugging at a lock of spiky hair. 몮D몭you 
think it makes me look a bit peaky?몯 

몮Er 멪 몯 said Harry, looking up at her over the top of 
Quidditch Teams of Britain and Ireland. 

몮Yeah, it does,몯 said Tonks decisively. She screwed up 
her eyes in a strained expression as though she were 
struggling to remember something. A second later, 
her hair had turned bubble-gum pink. 

몮How did you do that?몯 said Harry, gaping at her as 
she opened her eyes again. 

몮I몭m a Metamorphmagus,몯 she said, looking back at 
her reflection and turning her head so that she could 
see her hair from all directions. 몮It means I can 
change my appearance at will,몯 she added, spotting 
Harry몭s puzzled expression in the mirror behind her. 

몮I was born one. I got top marks in Concealment and 
Disguise during Auror training without any study at 
all, it was great.몯 

몮You몭re an Auror?몯 said Harry, impressed. Being a 
Dark wizard catcher was the only career he몭d ever 
considered after Hogwarts. 

몮Yeah,몯 said Tonks, looking proud. 몮Kingsley is as 
well; he몭s a bit higher up than I am, though. I only 
qualified a year ago. Nearly failed on Stealth and 

| 67 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




Tracking, I몭m dead clumsy, did you hear me break 
that plate when we arrived downstairs?몯 



몮Can you learn how to be a Metamorphmagus?몯 Harry 
asked her, straightening up, completely forgetting 
about packing. 

Tonks chuckled. 

몮Bet you wouldn몭t mind hiding that scar sometimes, 
eh?몯 

Her eyes found the lightning-shaped scar on Harry몭s 
forehead. 

몮No, I wouldn몭t mind,몯 Harry mumbled, turning away. 
He did not like people staring at his scar. 

몮Well, you 11 have to learn the hard way, I몭m afraid,몯 
said Tonks. 몮Metamorphmagi are really rare, they몭re 
born, not made. Most wizards need to use a wand or 
potions to change their appearance... But we몭ve got to 
get going, Harry, we몭re supposed to be packing,몯 she 
added guiltily, looking around at all the mess on the 
floor. 

몮Oh 멪 yeah,몯 said Harry, grabbing up a few more 
books. 

몮Don몭t be stupid, it몭ll be much quicker if I 멪 pack).몯 
cried Tonks, waving her wand in a long, sweeping 
movement over the floor. 

Books, clothes, telescope, and scales all soared into 
the air and flew pell-mell into the trunk. 

몮It몭s not very neat,몯 said Tonks, walking over to the 
trunk and looking down at the jumble inside. 몮My 
mum몭s got this knack of getting stuff to fit itself in 

| 




neatly 멪 she even gets the socks to fold themselves 멪 
but I몭ve never mastered how she does it 멪 it몭s a kind 
of flick 멪 몯 

She flicked her wand hopefully; one of Harry몭s socks 
gave a feeble sort of wiggle and flopped back on top of 
the mess within. 

몮Ah, well,몯 said Tonks, slamming the trunk몭s lid shut, 
몮at least it몭s all in. That could do with a bit of 
cleaning, too 멪 Scourgify 멪 몯 She pointed her wand at 
Hedwig몭s cage; a few feathers and droppings 
vanished. 몮Well, that몭s a bit better 멪 I몭ve never quite 
got the hang of these sort of householdy spells. Right 
멪 got everything? Cauldron? Broom? Wow! A 
Firebolt?몯 

Her eyes widened as they fell on the broomstick in 
Harry몭s right hand. It was his pride and joy, a gift 
from Sirius, an international standard broomstick. 

몮And I몭m still riding a Comet Two Sixty,몯 said Tonks 
enviously. 몮Ah well ... wand still in your jeans? Both 
buttocks still on? Okay, let몭s go. Locomotor Trunk.몯 

Harry몭s trunk rose a few inches into the air. Holding 
her wand like a conductor몭s baton, Tonks made it 
hover across the room and out of the door ahead of 
them, Hedwig몭s cage in her left hand. Harry followed 
her down the stairs carrying his broomstick. 

Back in the kitchen, Moody had replaced his eye, 
which was spinning so fast after its cleaning it made 
Harry feel sick. Kingsley Shacklebolt and Sturgis 
Podmore were examining the microwave and Hestia 
Jones was laughing at a potato peeler she had come 
across while rummaging in the drawers. Lupin was 
sealing a letter addressed to the Dursleys. 



| 




몮Excellent,몯 said Lupin, looking up as Tonks and 
Harry entered. 몮We몭ve got about a minute, I think. We 
should probably get out into the garden so we몭re 
ready. Harry, I몭ve left a letter telling your aunt and 
uncle not to worry 멪 몯 

몮They won몭t,몯 said Harry. 

몮That you몭re safe 멪 몯 

몮That몭ll just depress them.몯 

몮 멪 and you몭ll see them next summer.몯 

몮Do I have to?몯 

Lupin smiled but made no answer. 

몮Come here, boy,몯 said Moody gruffly, beckoning 
Harry toward him with his wand. 몮I need to 
Disillusion you.몯 

몮You need to what?몯 said Harry nervously. 

몮Disillusionment Charm,몯 said Moody, raising his 
wand. 몮Lupin says you몭ve got an Invisibility Cloak, 
but it won몭t stay on while we몭re flying; this몭ll disguise 
you better. Here you go 멪 몯 

He rapped Harry hard on the top of the head and 
Harry felt a curious sensation as though Moody had 
just smashed an egg there; cold trickles seemed to be 
running down his body from the point the wand had 
struck. 

몮Nice one, Mad-Eye,몯 said Tonks appreciatively, 
staring at Harry몭s midriff. 



| 




Harry looked down at his body, or rather, what had 
been his body, for it didn몭t look anything like his 
anymore. It was not invisible; it had simply taken on 
the exact color and texture of the kitchen unit behind 
him. He seemed to have become a human chameleon. 

몮Come on,몯 said Moody, unlocking the back door with 
his wand. 

They all stepped outside onto Uncle Vernon몭s 
beautifully kept lawn. 

몮Clear night,몯 grunted Moody, his magical eye 
scanning the heavens. 몮Could몭ve done with a bit more 
cloud cover. Right, you,몯 he barked at Harry, 몮we몭re 
going to be flying in close formation. Tonks몭ll be right 
in front of you, keep close on her tail. Lupin몭ll be 
covering you from below. I몭m going to be behind you. 
The rest몭ll be circling us. We don몭t break ranks for 
anything, got me? If one of us is killed 멪 몯 

몮Is that likely?몯 Harry asked apprehensively, but 
Moody ignored him. 

몮 멪 the others keep flying, don몭t stop, don몭t break 
ranks. If they take out all of us and you survive, 

Harry, the rear guard are standing by to take over; 
keep flying east and they몭ll join you.몯 

몮Stop being so cheerful, Mad-Eye, he몭ll think we몭re not 
taking this seriously,몯 said Tonks, as she strapped 
Harry몭s trunk and Hedwig몭s cage into a harness 
hanging from her broom. 

몮I몭m just telling the boy the plan,몯 growled Moody. 
몮Our job몭s to deliver him safely to headquarters and if 
we die in the attempt 멪 몯 



| 




몮No one몭s going to die,몯 said Kingsley Shacklebolt in 
his deep, calming voice. 

몮Mount your brooms, that몭s the first signal!몯 said 
Lupin sharply, pointing into the sky. 

Far, far above them, a shower of bright red sparks 
had flared among the stars. Harry recognized them at 
once as wand sparks. He swung his right leg over his 
Firebolt, gripped its handle tightly, and felt it 
vibrating very slightly, as though it was as keen as he 
was to be up in the air once more. 

몮Second signal, let몭s go!몯 said Lupin loudly, as more 
sparks, green this time, exploded high above them. 

Harry kicked off hard from the ground. The cool night 
air rushed through his hair as the neat square 
gardens of Privet Drive fell away, shrinking rapidly 
into a patchwork of dark greens and blacks, and 
every thought of the Ministry hearing was swept from 
his mind as though the rush of air had blown it out of 
his head. He felt as though his heart was going to 
explode with pleasure; he was flying again, flying 
away from Privet Drive as he몭d been fantasizing about 
all summer, he was going home... For a few glorious 
moments, all his problems seemed to recede into 
nothing, insignificant in the vast, starry sky. 

몮Hard left, hard left, there몭s a Muggle looking up!몯 
shouted Moody from behind him. Tonks swerved and 
Harry followed her, watching his trunk swinging 
wildly beneath her broom. 몮We need more height... 
Give it another quarter of a mile!몯 

Harry몭s eyes watered in the chill as they soared 
upward; he could see nothing below now but tiny 
pinpricks of light that were car headlights and 
streetlamps. Two of those tiny lights might belong to 

| 72 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




Uncle Vernon몭s car... The Dursleys would be heading 
back to their empty house right now, full of rage 
about the nonexistent lawn competition . . . and Harry 
laughed aloud at the thought, though his voice was 
drowned by the flapping of the others몭 robes, the 
creaking of the harness holding his trunk and the 
cage, the whoosh of the wind in their ears as they 
sped through the air. He had not felt this alive in a 
month, or this happy... 

몮Bearing south!몯 shouted Mad-Eye. 몮Town ahead!몯 

They soared right, so that they did not pass directly 
over the glittering spiderweb of lights below. 

몮Bear southeast and keep climbing, there몭s some low 
cloud ahead we can lose ourselves in!몯 called Moody. 

몮We몭re not going through clouds!몯 shouted Tonks 
angrily. 몮We몭ll get soaked, Mad-Eye!몯 

Harry was relieved to hear her say this; his hands 
were growing numb on the Firebolt몭s handle. He 
wished he had thought to put on a coat; he was 
starting to shiver. 

They altered their course every now and then 
according to Mad-Eye 몭s instructions. Harry몭s eyes 
were screwed up against the rush of icy wind that 
was starting to make his ears ache. He could 
remember being this cold on a broom only once 
before, during the Quidditch match against Hufflepuff 
in his third year, which had taken place in a storm. 
The guard around him was circling continuously like 
giant birds of prey. Harry lost track of time. He 
wondered how long they had been flying; it felt like an 
hour at least. 



| 




몮Turning southwest!몯 yelled Moody. 몮We want to avoid 
the motorway!몯 

Harry was now so chilled that he thought longingly 
for a moment of the snug, dry interiors of the cars 
streaming along below, then, even more longingly, of 
traveling by Floo powder; it might be uncomfortable to 
spin around in fireplaces but it was at least warm in 
the flames... Kingsley Shacklebolt swooped around 
him, bald pate and earring gleaming slightly in the 
moonlight... Now Emmeline Vance was on his right, 
her wand out, her head turning left and right . . . then 
she too swooped over him, to be replaced by Sturgis 
Podmore... 

몮We ought to double back for a bit, just to make sure 
we몭re not being followed!몯 Moody shouted. 

몮ARE YOU MAD, MAD-EYE?몯 Tonks screamed from 
the front. 몮We몭re all frozen to our brooms! If we keep 
going off course we몭re not going to get there until next 
week! We몭re nearly there now!몯 

몮Time to start the descent!몯 came Lupin몭s voice. 
몮Follow Tonks, Harry!몯 

Harry followed Tonks into a dive. They were heading 
for the largest collection of lights he had yet seen, a 
huge, sprawling, crisscrossing mass, glittering in lines 
and grids, interspersed with patches of deepest black. 
Lower and lower they flew, until Harry could see 
individual headlights and streetlamps, chimneys, and 
television aerials. He wanted to reach the ground very 
much, though he felt sure that someone would have 
to unfreeze him from his broom. 

몮Here we go!몯 called Tonks, and a few seconds later 
she had landed. 



| 




Harry touched down right behind her and 
dismounted on a patch of unkempt grass in the 
middle of a small square. Tonks was already 
unbuckling Harry몭s trunk. Shivering, Harry looked 
around. The grimy fronts of the surrounding houses 
were not welcoming; some of them had broken 
windows, glimmering dully in the light from the 
street-lamps, paint was peeling from many of the 
doors, and heaps of rubbish lay outside several sets 
of front steps. 

몮Where are we?몯 Harry asked, but Lupin said quietly, 
몮In a minute.몯 

Moody was rummaging in his cloak, his gnarled 
hands clumsy with cold. 

몮Got it,몯 he muttered, raising what looked like a silver 
cigarette lighter into the air and clicking it. 

The nearest streetlamp went out with a pop. He 
clicked the un-lighter again; the next lamp went out. 
He kept clicking until every lamp in the square was 
extinguished and the only light in the square came 
from curtained windows and the sickle moon 
overhead. 

몮Borrowed it from Dumbledore,몯 growled Moody, 
pocketing the Put-Outer. 몮That몭ll take care of any 
Muggles looking out of the window, see? Now, come 
on, quick.몯 

He took Harry by the arm and led him from the patch 
of grass, across the road, and onto the pavement. 
Lupin and Tonks followed, carrying Harry몭s trunk 
between them, the rest of the guard, all with their 
wands out, flanking them. 



| 




The muffled pounding of a stereo was coming from an 
upper window in the nearest house. A pungent smell 
of rotting rubbish came from the pile of bulging bin- 
bags just inside the broken gate. 

몮Here,몯 Moody muttered, thrusting a piece of 
parchment toward Harry몭s Disillusioned hand and 
holding his lit wand close to it, so as to illuminate the 
writing. 몮Read quickly and memorize.몯 

Harry looked down at the piece of paper. The narrow 
handwriting was vaguely familiar. It said: 

The headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix may he 
found at number twelve, Grimmauld Place, London. 



| 






NUMBER TWELVE, GRIMMAULD 
PLACE 

몮What몭s the Order of the 멪 ?몯 Harry began. 

몮Not here, boy!몯 snarled Moody. 몮Wait till we몭re 
inside!몯 

He pulled the piece of parchment out of Harry몭s hand 
and set fire to it with his wand tip. As the message 
curled into flames and floated to the ground, Harry 
looked around at the houses again. They were 
standing outside number eleven; he looked to the left 
and saw number ten; to the right, however, was 
number thirteen. 

몮But where몭s 멪 ?몯 

몮Think about what you몭ve just memorized,몯 said Lupin 
quietly. 

Harry thought, and no sooner had he reached the 
part about number twelve, Grimmauld Place, than a 



| 



battered door emerged out of nowhere between 
numbers eleven and thirteen, followed swiftly by dirty 
walls and grimy windows. It was as though an extra 
house had inflated, pushing those on either side out 
of its way. Harry gaped at it. The stereo in number 
eleven thudded on. Apparently the Muggles inside 
hadn몭t even felt anything. 

몮Come on, hurry,몯 growled Moody, prodding Harry in 
the back. 

Harry walked up the worn stone steps, staring at the 
newly materialized door. Its black paint was shabby 
and scratched. The silver door knocker was in the 
form of a twisted serpent. There was no keyhole or 
letterbox. 

Lupin pulled out his wand and tapped the door once. 
Harry heard many loud, metallic clicks and what 
sounded like the clatter of a chain. The door creaked 
open. 

몮Get in quick, Harry,몯 Lupin whispered. 몮But don몭t go 
far inside and don몭t touch anything.몯 

Harry stepped over the threshold into the almost total 
darkness of the hall. He could smell damp, dust, and 
a sweetish, rotting smell; the place had the feeling of 
a derelict building. He looked over his shoulder and 
saw the others filing in behind him, Lupin and Tonks 
carrying his trunk and Hedwig몭s cage. Moody was 
standing on the top step and releasing the balls of 
light the Put-Outer had stolen from the street-lamps; 
they flew back to their bulbs and the square beyond 
glowed momentarily with orange light before Moody 
limped inside and closed the front door, so that the 
darkness in the hall became complete. 

몮Here 멪 몯 

| 78 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




He rapped Harry hard over the head with his wand; 
Harry felt as though something hot was trickling 
down his back this time and knew that the 
Disillusionment Charm must have lifted. 

몮Now stay still, everyone, while I give us a bit of light 
in here,몯 Moody whispered. 

The others몭 hushed voices were giving Harry an odd 
feeling of foreboding; it was as though they had just 
entered the house of a dying person. He heard a soft 
hissing noise and then old-fashioned gas lamps 
sputtered into life all along the walls, casting a 
flickering insubstantial light over the peeling 
wallpaper and threadbare carpet of a long, gloomy 
hallway, where a cobwebby chandelier glimmered 
overhead and age-blackened portraits hung crooked 
on the walls. Harry heard something scuttling behind 
the baseboard. Both the chandelier and the 
candelabra on a rickety table nearby were shaped like 
serpents. 

There were hurried footsteps and Ron몭s mother, Mrs. 
Weasley, emerged from a door at the far end of the 
hall. She was beaming in welcome as she hurried 
toward them, though Harry noticed that she was 
rather thinner and paler than she had been last time 
he had seen her. 

몮Oh, Harry, it몭s lovely to see you!몯 she whispered, 
pulling him into a rib-cracking hug before holding 
him at arm몭s length and examining him critically. 
몮You몭re looking peaky; you need feeding up, but you몭ll 
have to wait a bit for dinner, I몭m afraid...몯 

She turned to the gang of wizards behind him and 
whispered urgently, 몮He몭s just arrived, the meeting몭s 
started...몯 



| 




The wizards behind Harry all made noises of interest 
and excitement and began filing past Harry toward 
the door through which Mrs. Weasley had just come; 
Harry made to follow Lupin, but Mrs. Weasley held 
him back. 

몮No, Harry, the meeting몭s only for members of the 
Order. Ron and Hermione are upstairs, you can wait 
with them until the meeting몭s over and then we몭ll have 
dinner. And keep your voice down in the hall,몯 she 
added in an urgent whisper. 

몮Why?몯 

몮I don몭t want to wake anything up.몯 

몮What d몭you 멪 ?몯 

몮I몭ll explain later, I몭ve got to hurry, I몭m supposed to be 
at the meeting 멪 I몭ll just show you where you몭re 
sleeping.몯 

Pressing her finger to her lips, she led him on tiptoes 
past a pair of long, moth-eaten curtains, behind 
which Harry supposed there must be another door, 
and after skirting a large umbrella stand that looked 
as though it had been made from a severed troll몭s leg, 
they started up the dark staircase, passing a row of 
shrunken heads mounted on plaques on the wall. A 
closer look showed Harry that the heads belonged to 
house-elves. All of them had the same rather 
snoutlike nose. 

Harry몭s bewilderment deepened with every step he 
took. What on earth were they doing in a house that 
looked as though it belonged to the Darkest of 
wizards? 

몮Mrs. Weasley, why 멪 ?몯 

| 




몮Ron and Hermione will explain everything, dear, I몭ve 
really got to dash,몯 Mrs. Weasley whispered 
distractedly. 몮There몯 멪 they had reached the second 
landing 멪 몮you몭re the door on the right. I몭ll call you 
when it몭s over.몯 

And she hurried off downstairs again. 

Harry crossed the dingy landing, turned the bedroom 
doorknob, which was shaped like a serpent몭s head, 
and opened the door. 

He caught a brief glimpse of a gloomy high-ceilinged, 
twin-bedded room, then there was a loud twittering 
noise, followed by an even louder shriek, and his 
vision was completely obscured by a large quantity of 
very bushy hair 멪 Hermione had thrown herself onto 
him in a hug that nearly knocked him flat, while 
Ron몭s tiny owl, Pigwidgeon, zoomed excitedly round 
and round their heads. 

몮HARRY! Ron, he몭s here, Harry몭s here! We didn몭t hear 
you arrive! Oh, how are you? Are you all right? Have 
you been furious with us? I bet you have, I know our 
letters were useless 멪 but we couldn몭t tell you 
anything, Dumbledore made us swear we wouldn몭t, 
oh, we몭ve got so much to tell you, and you몭ve got to 
tell us 멪 the dementors! When we heard 멪 and that 
Ministry hearing 멪 it몭s just outrageous, I몭ve looked it 
all up, they can몭t expel you, they just can몭t, there몭s 
provision in the Decree for the Restriction of 
Underage Sorcery for the use of magic in life- 
threatening situations 멪 몯 

몮Let him breathe, Hermione,몯 said Ron, grinning, 
closing the door behind Harry. He seemed to have 
grown several more inches during their month apart, 
making him taller and more gangly looking than ever, 



| 




though the long nose, bright red hair, and freckles 
were the same. 

Hermione, still beaming, let go of Harry, but before 
she could say another word there was a soft 
whooshing sound and something white soared from 
the top of a dark wardrobe and landed gently on 
Harry몭s shoulder. 

몮Hedwig!몯 

The snowy owl clicked her beak and nibbled his ear 
affectionately as Harry stroked her feathers. 

몮She몭s been in a right state,몯 said Ron. 몮Pecked us 
half to death when she brought your last letters, look 
at this 멪 몯 

He showed Harry the index finger of his right hand, 
which sported a half-healed but clearly deep cut. 

몮Oh yeah,몯 Harry said. 몮Sorry about that, but I 
wanted answers, you know...몯 

몮We wanted to give them to you, mate,몯 said Ron. 
몮Hermione was going spare, she kept saying you몭d do 
something stupid if you were stuck all on your own 
without news, but Dumbledore made us 멪 몯 

몮 멪 swear not to tell me,몯 said Harry. 몮Yeah, 
Hermione몭s already said.몯 

The warm glow that had flared inside him at the sight 
of his two best friends was extinguished as something 
icy flooded the pit of his stomach. All of a sudden 멪 
after yearning to see them for a solid month 멪 he felt 
he would rather Ron and Hermione left him alone. 



| 




There was a strained silence in which Harry stroked 
Hedwig automatically, not looking at either of the 
others. 

몮He seemed to think it was best,몯 said Hermione 
rather breathlessly. 몮Dumbledore, I mean.몯 

몮Right,몯 said Harry. He noticed that her hands too 
bore the marks of Hedwig몭s beak and found that he 
was not at all sorry. 

몮I think he thought you were safest with the Muggles 
멪 몯 Ron began. 

몮Yeah?몯 said Harry, raising his eyebrows. 몮Have either 
of you been attacked by dementors this summer?몯 

몮Well, no 멪 but that몭s why he몭s had people from the 
Order of the Phoenix tailing you all the time 멪 몯 

Harry felt a great jolt in his guts as though he had 
just missed a step going downstairs. So everyone had 
known he was being followed except him. 

몮Didn몭t work that well, though, did it?몯 said Harry, 
doing his utmost to keep his voice even. 몮Had to look 
after myself after all, didn몭t I?몯 

몮He was so angry,몯 said Hermione in an almost 
awestruck voice. 몮Dumbledore. We saw him. When he 
found out Mundungus had left before his shift had 
ended. He was scary.몯 

몮Well, I몭m glad he left,몯 Harry said coldly. 몮If he 
hadn몭t, I wouldn몭t have done magic and Dumbledore 
would probably have left me at Privet Drive all 
summer.몯 



| 




몮Aren몭t you ... aren몭t you worried about the Ministry of 
Magic hearing?몯 said Hermione quietly. 

몮No,몯 Harry lied defiantly. He walked away from them, 
looking around, with Hedwig nestled contentedly on 
his shoulder, but this room was not likely to raise his 
spirits. It was dank and dark. A blank stretch of 
canvas in an ornate picture frame was all that 
relieved the bareness of the peeling walls and as 
Harry passed it he thought he heard someone lurking 
out of sight snigger. 

몮So why몭s Dumbledore been so keen to keep me in the 
dark?몯 Harry asked, still trying hard to keep his voice 
casual. 몮Did you 멪 er 멪 bother to ask him at all?몯 

He glanced up just in time to see them exchanging a 
look that told him he was behaving just as they had 
feared he would. It did nothing to improve his temper. 

몮We told Dumbledore we wanted to tell you what was 
going on,몯 said Ron. 몮We did, mate. But he몭s really 
busy now, we몭ve only seen him twice since we came 
here and he didn몭t have much time, he just made us 
swear not to tell you important stuff when we wrote, 
he said the owls might be intercepted 멪 몯 

몮He could still몭ve kept me informed if he몭d wanted to,몯 
Harry said shortly. 몮You몭re not telling me he doesn몭t 
know ways to send messages without owls.몯 

Hermione glanced at Ron and then said, 몮I thought 
that too. But he didn몭t want you to know anything.몯 

몮Maybe he thinks I can몭t be trusted,몯 said Harry, 
watching their expressions. 

몮Don몭t be thick,몯 said Ron, looking highly 
disconcerted. 

| 




몮Or that I can몭t take care of myself 멪 몯 



몮Of course he doesn몭t think that!몯 said Hermione 
anxiously. 

몮So how come I have to stay at the Dursleys몭 while 
you two get to join in everything that몭s going on 
here?몯 said Harry, the words tumbling over one 
another in a rush, his voice growing louder with every 
word. 몮How come you two are allowed to know 
everything that몭s going on 멪 ?몯 

몮We몭re not!몯 Ron interrupted. 몮Mum won몭t let us near 
the meetings, she says we몭re too young 멪 몯 

But before he knew it, Harry was shouting. 

몮SO YOU HAVEN몭T BEEN IN THE MEETINGS, BIG 
DEAL! YOUVE STILL BEEN HERE, HAVEN T YOU? 
YOUVE STILL BEEN TOGETHER! ME, IVE BEEN 
STUCK AT THE DURSLEYS몭 FOR A MONTH! AND IVE 
HANDLED MORE THAN YOU TWOVE EVER 
MANAGED AND DUMBLEDORE KNOWS IT 멪 WHO 
SAVED THE SORCERER몭S STONE? WHO GOT RID 
OF RIDDLE? WHO SAVED BOTH YOUR SKINS FROM 
THE DEMENTORS?몯 

Every bitter and resentful thought that Harry had had 
in the past month was pouring out of him; his 
frustration at the lack of news, the hurt that they had 
all been together without him, his fury at being 
followed and not told about it: All the feelings he was 
half-ashamed of finally burst their boundaries. 

Hedwig took fright at the noise and soared off on top 
of the wardrobe again; Pigwidgeon twittered in alarm 
and zoomed even faster around their heads. 

몮WHO HAD TO GET PAST DRAGONS AND SPHINXES 
AND EVERY OTHER FOUL THING LAST YEAR? WHO 

| 85 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




SAW HIM COME BACK? WHO HAD TO ESCAPE 
FROM HIM? ME!몯 



Ron was standing there with his mouth half-open, 
clearly stunned and at a loss for anything to say, 
while Hermione looked on the verge of tears. 

몮BUT WHY SHOULD I KNOW WHAT몭S GOING ON? 
WHY SHOULD ANYONE BOTHER TO TELL ME 
WHAT몭S BEEN HAPPENING?몯 



몮Harry, we wanted to tell you, we really did 멪 몯 
Hermione began. 



몮CANTVE WANTED TO THAT MUCH, CAN YOU, OR 
YOU몭D HAVE SENT ME AN OWL, BUT DUMBLEDORE 
MADE YOU SWEAR 멪 몯 



몮Well, he did 멪 몯 

몮FOUR WEEKS IVE BEEN STUCK IN PRIVET DRIVE, 
NICKING PAPERS OUT OF BINS TO TRY AND FIND 
OUT WHAT몭S BEEN GOING ON 멪 몯 



몮We wanted to 멪 몯 

몮I SUPPOSE YOUVE BEEN HAVING A REAL LAUGH, 
HAVENT YOU, ALL HOLED UP HERE TOGETHER 멪 몯 

몮No, honest 멪 몯 

몮Harry, we몭re really sorry!몯 said Hermione desperately, 
her eyes now sparkling with tears. 몮You몭re absolutely 
right, Harry 멪 I몭d be furious if it was me!몯 

Harry glared at her, still breathing deeply, then 
turned away from them again, pacing up and down. 
Hedwig hooted glumly from the top of the wardrobe. 



| 




There was a long pause, broken only by the mournful 
creak of the floorboards below Harry몭s feet. 

몮What is this place anyway?몯 he shot at Ron and 
Hermione. 

몮Headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix,몯 said Ron 
at once. 

몮Is anyone going to bother telling me what the Order 
of the Phoenix 멪 ?몯 

몮It몭s a secret society,몯 said Hermione quickly. 
몮Dumbledore몭s in charge, he founded it. It몭s the people 
who fought against You-Know-Who last time.몯 

몮Who몭s in it?몯 said Harry, coming to a halt with his 
hands in his pockets. 

몮Quite a few people 멪 몯 

몮 멪 we몭ve met about twenty of them,몯 said Ron, 몮but 
we think there are more...몯 

Harry glared at them. 

몮 Well?몯 he demanded, looking from one to the other. 
몮Er,몯 said Ron. 몮Well what?몯 

몮Voldemorti몯 said Harry furiously, and both Ron and 
Hermione winced. 몮What몭s happening? What몭s he up 
to? Where is he? What are we doing to stop him?몯 

몮We몭ve told you, the Order don몭t let us in on their 
meetings,몯 said Hermione nervously. 몮So we don몭t 
know the details 멪 but we몭ve got a general idea 멪 몯 
she added hastily, seeing the look on Harry몭s face. 



| 




몮Fred and George have invented Extendable Ears, 
see,몯 said Ron. 몮They몭re really useful.몯 



몮Extendable 멪 ?몯 

몮Ears, yeah. Only we몭ve had to stop using them lately 
because Mum found out and went berserk. Fred and 
George had to hide them all to stop Mum binning 
them. But we got a good bit of use out of them before 
Mum realized what was going on. We know some of 
the Order are following known Death Eaters, keeping 
tabs on them, you know 멪 몯 

몮 멪 some of them are working on recruiting more 
people to the Order 멪 몯 said Hermione. 

몮 멪 and some of them are standing guard over 
something,몯 said Ron. 몮They몭re always talking about 
guard duty.몯 

몮Couldn몭t have been me, could it?몯 said Harry 
sarcastically. 

몮Oh yeah,몯 said Ron, with a look of dawning 
comprehension. 

Harry snorted. He walked around the room again, 
looking anywhere but at Ron and Hermione. 몮So what 
have you two been doing, if you몭re not allowed in 
meetings?몯 he demanded. 몮You said you몭d been busy.몯 

몮We have,몯 said Hermione quickly. 몮We몭ve been 
decontaminating this house, it몭s been empty for ages 
and stuff몭s been breeding in here. We몭ve managed to 
clean out the kitchen, most of the bedrooms, and I 
think we몭re doing the drawing room tomo 멪 AARGH!몯 

With two loud cracks, Fred and George, Ron몭s elder 
twin brothers, had materialized out of thin air in the 

| 




middle of the room. Pigwidgeon twittered more wildly 
than ever and zoomed off to join Hedwig on top of the 
wardrobe. 

몮Stop doing that!몯 Hermione said weakly to the twins, 
who were as vividly red-haired as Ron, though 
stockier and slightly shorter. 

몮Hello, Harry,몯 said George, beaming at him. 몮We 
thought we heard your dulcet tones.몯 

몮You don몭t want to bottle up your anger like that, 
Harry, let it all out,몯 said Fred, also beaming. 몮There 
might be a couple of people fifty miles away who 
didn몭t hear you.몯 

몮You two passed your Apparation tests, then?몯 asked 
Harry grumpily. 

몮With distinction,몯 said Fred, who was holding what 
looked like a piece of very long, flesh-colored string. 

몮It would have taken you about thirty seconds longer 
to walk down the stairs,몯 said Ron. 

몮Time is Galleons, little brother,몯 said Fred. 몮Anyway, 
Harry, you몭re interfering with reception. Extendable 
Ears,몯 he added in response to Harry몭s raised 
eyebrows, holding up the string, which Harry now 
saw was trailing out onto the landing. 몮We몭re trying to 
hear what몭s going on downstairs.몯 

몮You want to be careful,몯 said Ron, staring at the ear. 
몮If Mum sees one of them again ...몯 

몮It몭s worth the risk, that몭s a major meeting they몭re 
having,몯 said Fred. 



| 




The door opened and a long mane of red hair 
appeared. 

몮Oh hello, Harry!몯 said Ron몭s younger sister, Ginny, 
brightly. 몮I thought I heard your voice.몯 

Turning to Fred and George she said, 몮It몭s no go with 
the Extendable Ears, she몭s gone and put an 
Imperturbable Charm on the kitchen door.몯 

몮How d몭you know?몯 said George, looking crestfallen. 

몮Tonks told me how to find out,몯 said Ginny. 몮You just 
chuck stuff at the door and if it can몭t make contact 
the door몭s been Imperturbed. I몭ve been flicking 
Dungbombs at it from the top of the stairs and they 
just soar away from it, so there몭s no way the 
Extendable Ears will be able to get under the gap.몯 

Fred heaved a deep sigh. 몮Shame. I really fancied 
finding out what old Snape몭s been up to.몯 

몮Snape?몯 said Harry quickly. 몮Is he here?몯 

몮Yeah,몯 said George, carefully closing the door and 
sitting down on one of the beds; Fred and Ginny 
followed. 몮Giving a report. Top secret.몯 

몮Git,몯 said Fred idly. 

몮He몭s on our side now,몯 said Hermione reprovingly. 

Ron snorted. 몮Doesn몭t stop him being a git. The way 
he looks at us when he sees us...몯 

몮Bill doesn몭t like him either,몯 said Ginny, as though 
that settled the matter. 



| 




Harry was not sure his anger had abated yet; but his 
thirst for information was now overcoming his urge to 
keep shouting. He sank onto the bed opposite the 
others. 

몮Is Bill here?몯 he asked. 몮I thought he was working in 
Egypt.몯 

몮He applied for a desk job so he could come home and 
work for the Order,몯 said Fred. 몮He says he misses the 
tombs, but,몯 he smirked, 몮there are compensations...몯 

몮What d몭you mean?몯 

몮Remember old Fleur Delacour?몯 said George. 몮She몭s 
got a job at Gringotts to eemprove 몭er Eeenglish 멪 몯 

몮 멪 and Bill몭s been giving her a lot of private lessons,몯 
sniggered Fred. 

몮Charlie몭s in the Order too,몯 said George, 몮but he몭s 
still in Romania, Dumbledore wants as many foreign 
wizards brought in as possible, so Charlie몭s trying to 
make contacts on his days off.몯 

몮Couldn몭t Percy do that?몯 Harry asked. The last he 
had heard, the third Weasley brother was working in 
the Department of International Magical Cooperation 
at the Ministry of Magic. 

At these words all the Weasleys and Hermione 
exchanged darkly significant looks. 

몮Whatever you do, don몭t mention Percy in front of 
Mum and Dad,몯 Ron told Harry in a tense voice. 

몮Why not?몯 



| 91 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




몮Because every time Percy몭s name몭s mentioned, Dad 
breaks whatever he몭s holding and Mum starts crying,몯 
Fred said. 

몮It몭s been awful,몯 said Ginny sadly. 

몮I think we몭re well shut of him,몯 said George with an 
uncharacteristically ugly look on his face. 

몮What몭s happened?몯 Harry said. 

몮Percy and Dad had a row,몯 said Fred. 몮I몭ve never seen 
Dad row with anyone like that. It몭s normally Mum 
who shouts...몯 

몮It was the first week back after term ended,몯 said 
Ron. 몮We were about to come and join the Order. 
Percy came home and told us he몭d been promoted.몯 

몮You몭re kidding?몯 said Harry. 

Though he knew perfectly well that Percy was highly 
ambitious, Harry몭s impression was that Percy had not 
made a great success of his first job at the Ministry of 
Magic. Percy had committed the fairly large oversight 
of failing to notice that his boss was being controlled 
by Lord Voldemort (not that the Ministry had believed 
that 멪 they all thought that Mr. Crouch had gone 
mad). 

몮Yeah, we were all surprised,몯 said George, 몮because 
Percy got into a load of trouble about Crouch, there 
was an inquiry and everything. They said Percy ought 
to have realized Crouch was off his rocker and 
informed a superior. But you know Percy, Crouch left 
him in charge, he wasn몭t going to complain...몯 

몮So how come they promoted him?몯 



| 




몮That몭s exactly what we wondered,몯 said Ron, who 
seemed very keen to keep normal conversation going 
now that Harry had stopped yelling. 몮He came home 
really pleased with himself 멪 even more pleased than 
usual if you can imagine that 멪 and told Dad he몭d 
been offered a position in Fudge몭s own office. A really 
good one for someone only a year out of Hogwarts 멪 
Junior Assistant to the Minister. He expected Dad to 
be all impressed, I think.몯 

몮Only Dad wasn몭t,몯 said Fred grimly. 

몮Why not?몯 said Harry. 

몮Well, apparently Fudge has been storming round the 
Ministry checking that nobody몭s having any contact 
with Dumbledore,몯 said George. 

몮Dumbledore몭s name몭s mud with the Ministry these 
days, see,몯 said Fred. 몮They all think he몭s just making 
trouble saying You-Know- Who몭s back.몯 

몮Dad says Fudge has made it clear that anyone who몭s 
in league with Dumbledore can clear out their desks,몯 
said George. 

몮Trouble is, Fudge suspects Dad, he knows he몭s 
friendly with Dumbledore, and he몭s always thought 
Dad몭s a bit of a weirdo because of his Muggle 
obsession 멪 몯 

몮But what몭s this got to do with Percy?몯 asked Harry, 
confused. 

몮I몭m coming to that. Dad reckons Fudge only wants 
Percy in his office because he wants to use him to spy 
on the family 멪 and Dumbledore.몯 



Harry let out a low whistle. 

| 93 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




몮Bet Percy loved that.몯 

Ron laughed in a hollow sort of way. 

몮He went completely berserk. He said 멪 well, he said 
loads of terrible stuff. He said he몭s been having to 
struggle against Dad몭s lousy reputation ever since he 
joined the Ministry and that Dad몭s got no ambition 
and that몭s why we몭ve always been 멪 you know 멪 not 
had a lot of money, I mean 멪 몯 

몮 What?몯 said Harry in disbelief, as Ginny made a 
noise like an angry cat. 

몮I know,몯 said Ron in a low voice. 몮And it got worse. 

He said Dad was an idiot to run around with 
Dumbledore, that Dumbledore was heading for big 
trouble and Dad was going to go down with him, and 
that he 멪 Percy 멪 knew where his loyalty lay and it 
was with the Ministry. And if Mum and Dad were 
going to become traitors to the Ministry he was going 
to make sure everyone knew he didn몭t belong to our 
family anymore. And he packed his bags the same 
night and left. He몭s living here in London now.몯 

Harry swore under his breath. He had always liked 
Percy least of Ron몭s brothers, but he had never 
imagined he would say such things to Mr. Weasley. 

몮Mum몭s been in a right state,몯 said Ron. 몮You know 멪 
crying and stuff. She came up to London to try and 
talk to Percy but he slammed the door in her face. I 
dunno what he does if he meets Dad at work 멪 
ignores him, I s몭pose.몯 

몮But Percy must know Voldemort몭s back,몯 said Harry 
slowly. 몮He몭s not stupid, he must know your mum 
and dad wouldn몭t risk everything without proof 멪 몯 



| 




몮Yeah, well, your name got dragged into the row,몯 said 
Ron, shooting Harry a furtive look. 몮Percy said the 
only evidence was your word and ... I dunno ... he 
didn몭t think it was good enough.몯 

몮Percy takes the Daily Prophet seriously,몯 said 
Hermione tartly, and the others all nodded. 

몮What are you talking about?몯 Harry asked, looking 
around at them all. They were all regarding him 
warily. 

몮Haven몭t 멪 haven몭t you been getting the Daily 
Prophet?몯 Hermione asked nervously. 

몮Yeah, I have!몯 said Harry. 

몮Have you 멪 er 멪 been reading it thoroughly?몯 
Hermione asked still more anxiously. 

몮Not cover to cover,몯 said Harry defensively. 몮If they 
were going to report anything about Voldemort it 
would be headline news, wouldn몭t it!몯 

The others flinched at the sound of the name. 
Hermione hurried on, 몮Well, you몭d need to read it 
cover to cover to pick it up, but they 멪 um 멪 they 
mention you a couple of times a week.몯 

몮But I몭d have seen 멪 몯 

몮Not if you몭ve only been reading the front page, you 
wouldn몭t,몯 said Hermione, shaking her head. 몮I몭m not 
talking about big articles. They just slip you in, like 
you몭re a standing joke.몯 

몮What d몭you 멪 ?몯 



| 95 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




몮It몭s quite nasty, actually,몯 said Hermione in a voice of 
forced calm. 몮They몭re just building on Rita몭s stuff.몯 

몮But she몭s not writing for them anymore, is she?몯 

몮Oh no, she몭s kept her promise 멪 not that she몭s got 
any choice,몯 Hermione added with satisfaction. 몮But 
she laid the foundation for what they몭re trying to do 
now.몯 

몮Which is what?몯 said Harry impatiently. 

몮Okay, you know she wrote that you were collapsing 
all over the place and saying your scar was hurting 
and all that?몯 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry, who was not likely to forget Rita 
Skeeter몭s stories about him in a hurry. 

몮Well, they몭re writing about you as though you몭re this 
deluded, attention-seeking person who thinks he몭s a 
great tragic hero or something,몯 said Hermione, very 
fast, as though it would be less unpleasant for Harry 
to hear these facts quickly. 몮They keep slipping in 
snide comments about you. If some far-fetched story 
appears they say something like 몬a tale worthy of 
Harry Potter몭 and if anyone has a funny accident or 
anything it몭s let몭s hope he hasn몭t got a scar on his 
forehead or we몭ll be asked to worship him next 멪 몭 몯 

몮I don몭t want anyone to worship 멪 몯 Harry began 
hotly. 

몮I know you don몭t,몯 said Hermione quickly, looking 
frightened. 몮I know, Harry. But you see what they몭re 
doing? They want to turn you into someone nobody 
will believe. Fudge is behind it, I몭ll bet anything. They 
want wizards on the street to think you몭re just some 
stupid boy who몭s a bit of a joke, who tells ridiculous 
| 96 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




tall stories because he loves being famous and wants 
to keep it going.몯 

몮I didn몭t ask 멪 I didn몭t want 멪 Voldemort killed my 
parentsV몭 Harry spluttered. 몮I got famous because he 
murdered my family but couldn몭t kill me! Who wants 
to be famous for that? Don몭t they think I몭d rather it몭d 
never 멪 몯 

몮We know, Harry,몯 said Ginny earnestly. 

몮And of course, they didn몭t report a word about the 
dementors attacking you,몯 said Hermione. 몮Someone몭s 
told them to keep that quiet. That should몭ve been a 
really big story, out-of-control dementors. They 
haven몭t even reported that you broke the International 
Statute of Secrecy 멪 we thought they would, it would 
tie in so well with this image of you as some stupid 
show-off 멪 we think they몭re biding their time until 
you몭re expelled, then they몭re really going to go to town 
멪 I mean, if you몭re expelled, obviously,몯 she went on 
hastily, 몮you really shouldn몭t be, not if they abide by 
their own laws, there몭s no case against you.몯 

They were back on the hearing and Harry did not 
want to think about it. He cast around for another 
change of subject, but was saved the necessity of 
finding one by the sound of footsteps coming up the 
stairs. 

몮Uh-oh.몯 

Fred gave the Extendable Ear a hearty tug; there was 
another loud crack and he and George vanished. 
Seconds later, Mrs. Weasley appeared in the bedroom 
doorway. 

몮The meeting몭s over, you can come down and have 
dinner now, everyone몭s dying to see you, Harry. And 

| 97 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




who몭s left all those Dungbombs outside the kitchen 
door?몯 



몮Crookshanks,몯 said Ginny unblushingly. 몮He loves 
playing with them.몯 

몮Oh,몯 said Mrs. Weasley, 몮I thought it might have 
been Kreacher, he keeps doing odd things like that. 
Now don몭t forget to keep your voices down in the hall. 
Ginny, your hands are filthy, what have you been 
doing? Go and wash them before dinner, please...몯 

Ginny grimaced at the others and followed her mother 
out of the room, leaving Harry alone with Ron and 
Hermione again. Both of them were watching him 
apprehensively, as though they feared that he would 
start shouting again now that everyone else had gone. 
The sight of them looking so nervous made him feel 
slightly ashamed. 

몮Look ...몯 he muttered, but Ron shook his head, and 
Hermione said quietly, 몮We knew you몭d be angry, 
Harry, we really don몭t blame you, but you몭ve got to 
understand, we did try and persuade Dumbledore 멪 몯 

몮Yeah, I know,몯 said Harry grudgingly. 

He cast around for a topic to change the subject from 
Dumbledore 멪 the very thought of him made Harry몭s 
insides burn with anger again. 

몮Who몭s Kreacher?몯 he asked. 

몮The house-elf who lives here,몯 said Ron. 몮Nutter. 
Never met one like him.몯 

Hermione frowned at Ron. 

몮He몭s not a nutter, Ron 멪 몯 

| 98 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




몮His life몭s ambition is to have his head cut off and 
stuck up on a plaque just like his mother,몯 said Ron 
irritably. 몮Is that normal, Hermione?몯 

몮Well 멪 well, if he is a bit strange, it몭s not his fault 멪 몯 

Ron rolled his eyes at Harry. 

몮Hermione still hasn몭t given up on spew 멪 몯 

몮It몭s not 몬spew몭!몯 said Hermione heatedly. 몮It몭s the 
Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare, and it몭s 
not just me, Dumbledore says we should be kind to 
Kreacher too 멪 몯 

몮Yeah, yeah,몯 said Ron. 몮C몭mon, I몭m starving.몯 

He led the way out of the door and onto the landing, 
but before they could descend the stairs 멪 몮Hold it!몯 
Ron breathed, flinging out an arm to stop Harry and 
Hermione walking any farther. 몮They몭re still in the 
hall, we might be able to hear something 멪 몯 

The three of them looked cautiously over the 
banisters. The gloomy hallway below was packed with 
witches and wizards, including all of Harry몭s guard. 
They were whispering excitedly together. In the very 
center of the group Harry saw the dark, greasy-haired 
head and prominent nose of his least favorite teacher 
at Hogwarts, Professor Snape. Harry leaned farther 
over the banisters. He was very interested in what 
Snape was doing for the Order of the Phoenix. . . 

A thin piece of flesh-colored string descended in front 
of Harry몭s eyes. Looking up he saw Fred and George 
on the landing above, cautiously lowering the 
Extendable Ear toward the dark knot of people below. 
A moment later, however, they began to move toward 
the front door and out of sight. 

| 99 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




몮Dammit,몯 Harry heard Fred whisper, as he hoisted 
the Extendable Ear back up again. 

They heard the front door open and then close. 

몮Snape never eats here,몯 Ron told Harry quietly. 
몮Thank God. C몭mon.몯 

몮And don몭t forget to keep your voice down in the hall, 
Harry,몯 Hermione whispered. 

As they passed the row of house-elf heads on the wall 
they saw Lupin, Mrs. Weasley, and Tonks at the front 
door, magically sealing its many locks and bolts 
behind those who had just left. 

몮We몭re eating down in the kitchen,몯 Mrs. Weasley 
whispered, meeting them at the bottom of the stairs. 
몮Harry, dear, if youll just tiptoe across the hall, it몭s 
through this door here 멪 몯 

CRASH. 

몮Tonksl몯 cried Mrs. Weasley exasperatedly, turning to 
look behind her. 

몮I몭m sorry!몯 wailed Tonks, who was lying flat on the 
floor. 몮It몭s that stupid umbrella stand, that몭s the 
second time I몭ve tripped over 멪 몯 

But the rest of her words were drowned by a horrible, 
earsplitting, bloodcurdling screech. 

The moth-eaten velvet curtains Harry had passed 
earlier had flown apart, but there was no door behind 
them. For a split second, Harry thought he was 
looking through a window, a window behind which an 
old woman in a black cap was screaming and 
screaming as though she was being tortured 멪 then 
| lOOHarry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




he realized it was simply a life-size portrait, but the 
most realistic, and the most unpleasant, he had ever 
seen in his life. 

The old woman was drooling, her eyes were rolling, 
the yellowing skin of her face stretched taut as she 
screamed, and all along the hall behind them, the 
other portraits awoke and began to yell too, so that 
Harry actually screwed up his eyes at the noise and 
clapped his hands over his ears. 

Lupin and Mrs. Weasley darted forward and tried to 
tug the curtains shut over the old woman, but they 
would not close and she screeched louder than ever, 
brandishing clawed hands as though trying to tear at 
their faces. 

몮Filth! Scum! By-products of dirt and vileness! Half- 
breeds, mutants, freaks, begone from this place! How 
dare you befoul the house of my fathers 멪 몯 

Tonks apologized over and over again, at the same 
time dragging the huge, heavy troll몭s leg back off the 
floor. Mrs. Weasley abandoned the attempt to close 
the curtains and hurried up and down the hall, 
Stunning all the other portraits with her wand. Then 
a man with long black hair came charging out of a 
door facing Harry. 

몮Shut up, you horrible old hag, shut UP!몯 he roared, 
seizing the curtain Mrs. Weasley had abandoned. 

The old woman몭s face blanched. 

몮Yooooul몯 she howled, her eyes popping at the sight of 
the man. 몮Blood traitor, abomination, shame of my 
fleshl몯 



| lOlHarry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I said 멪 shut 멪 UP!몯 roared the man, and with a 
stupendous effort he and Lupin managed to force the 
curtains closed again. 

The old woman몭s screeches died and an echoing 
silence fell. 

Panting slightly and sweeping his long dark hair out 
of his eyes, Harry몭s godfather, Sirius, turned to face 
him. 

몮Hello, Harry,몯 he said grimly, 몮I see you몭ve met my 
mother.몯 



| 102Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




5 




THE ORDER OF THE PHOENIX 

몮Your 멪 ?몯 

몮My dear old mum, yeah,몯 said Sirius. 몮We몭ve been 
trying to get her down for a month but we think she 
put a Permanent Sticking Charm on the back of the 
canvas. Let몭s get downstairs, quick, before they all 
wake up again.몯 

몮But what몭s a portrait of your mother doing here?몯 
Harry asked, bewildered, as they went through the 
door from the hall and led the way down a flight of 
narrow stone steps, the others just behind them. 

몮Hasn몭t anyone told you? This was my parents몭 
house,몯 said Sirius. 몮But I몭m the last Black left, so it몭s 
mine now. I offered it to Dumbledore for headquarters 
멪 about the only useful thing I몭ve been able to do.몯 

Harry, who had expected a better welcome, noted how 
hard and bitter Sirius몭s voice sounded. He followed 
his godfather to the bottom of the stairs and through 
a door leading into the basement kitchen. 

| 103Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



It was scarcely less gloomy than the hall above, a 
cavernous room with rough stone walls. Most of the 
light was coming from a large fire at the far end of the 
room. A haze of pipe smoke hung in the air like battle 
fumes, through which loomed the menacing shapes of 
heavy iron pots and pans hanging from the dark 
ceiling. Many chairs had been crammed into the room 
for the meeting and a long wooden table stood in the 
middle of the room, littered with rolls of parchment, 
goblets, empty wine bottles, and a heap of what 
appeared to be rags. Mr. Weasley and his eldest son, 
Bill, were talking quietly with their heads together at 
the end of the table. 

Mrs. Weasley cleared her throat. Her husband, a thin, 
balding, red-haired man, who wore horn-rimmed 
glasses, looked around and jumped to his feet. 

몮Harry!몯 Mr. Weasley said, hurrying forward to greet 
him and shaking his hand vigorously. 몮Good to see 
you!몯 

Over his shoulder Harry saw Bill, who still wore his 
long hair in a ponytail, hastily rolling up the lengths 
of parchment left on the table. 

몮Journey all right, Harry?몯 Bill called, trying to gather 
up twelve scrolls at once. 몮Mad-Eye didn몭t make you 
come via Greenland, then?몯 

몮He tried,몯 said Tonks, striding over to help Bill and 
immediately sending a candle toppling onto the last 
piece of parchment. 몮Oh no 멪 sorry 멪 몯 

몮Here, dear,몯 said Mrs. Weasley, sounding 
exasperated, and she repaired the parchment with a 
wave of her wand: In the flash of light caused by Mrs. 
Weasley몭s charm, Harry caught a glimpse of what 
looked like the plan of a building. 

| 104Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Mrs. Weasley had seen him looking. She snatched the 
plan off the table and stuffed it into Bill몭s heavily 
laden arms. 

몮This sort of thing ought to be cleared away promptly 
at the end of meetings,몯 she snapped before sweeping 
off toward an ancient dresser from which she started 
unloading dinner plates. 

Bill took out his wand, muttered 몮Evanescol몯 and the 
scrolls vanished. 

몮Sit down, Harry,몯 said Sirius. 몮You몭ve met 
Mundungus, haven몭t you?몯 

The thing Harry had taken to be a pile of rags gave a 
prolonged, grunting snore and then jerked awake. 

몮Some몭n say m몭 name?몯 Mundungus mumbled 
sleepily. 몮I 몭gree with Sirius...몯 

He raised a very grubby hand in the air as though 
voting, his droopy, bloodshot eyes unfocused. Ginny 
giggled. 

몮The meeting몭s over, Dung,몯 said Sirius, as they all sat 
down around him at the table. 몮Harry몭s arrived.몯 

몮Eh?몯 said Mundungus, peering balefully at Harry 
through his matted ginger hair. 몮Blimey, so 몭e 몭as. 

Yeah ... you all right, 몭arry?몯 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry. 

Mundungus fumbled nervously in his pockets, still 
staring at Harry, and pulled out a grimy black pipe. 

He stuck it in his mouth, ignited the end of it with his 
wand, and took a deep pull on it. Great billowing 
clouds of greenish smoke obscured him in seconds. 
| 105Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Owe you a 몭pology,몯 grunted a voice from the middle 
of the smelly cloud. 

몮For the last time, Mundungus,몯 called Mrs. Weasley, 
몮will you please not smoke that thing in the kitchen, 
especially not when we몭re about to eat!몯 

몮Ah,몯 said Mundungus. 몮Right. Sorry, Molly.몯 

The cloud of smoke vanished as Mundungus stowed 
his pipe back in his pocket, but an acrid smell of 
burning socks lingered. 

몮And if you want dinner before midnight I몭ll need a 
hand,몯 Mrs. Weasley said to the room at large. 몮No, 
you can stay where you are, Harry dear, you몭ve had a 
long journey 멪 몯 

몮What can I do, Molly?몯 said Tonks enthusiastically, 
bounding forward. 

Mrs. Weasley hesitated, looking apprehensive. 

몮Er 멪 no, it몭s all right, Tonks, you have a rest too, 
you몭ve done enough today 멪 몯 

몮No, no, I want to help!몯 said Tonks brightly, knocking 
over a chair as she hurried toward the dresser from 
which Ginny was collecting cutlery. 

Soon a series of heavy knives were chopping meat 
and vegetables of their own accord, supervised by Mr. 
Weasley, while Mrs. Weasley stirred a cauldron 
dangling over the fire and the others took out plates, 
more goblets, and food from the pantry. Harry was 
left at the table with Sirius and Mundungus, who was 
still blinking mournfully at him. 

몮Seen old Figgy since?몯 he asked. 

| 106Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮No,몯 said Harry, 몮I haven몭t seen anyone.몯 



몮See, I wouldn몭t 몭ave left,몯 said Mundungus, leaning 
forward, a pleading note in his voice, 몮but I 몭ad a 
business opportunity 멪 몯 

Harry felt something brush against his knees and 
started, but it was only Crookshanks, Hermione몭s 
bandy-legged ginger cat, who wound himself once 
around Harry몭s legs, purring, then jumped onto 
Sirius몭s lap and curled up. Sirius scratched him 
absentmindedly behind the ears as he turned, still 
grim-faced, to Harry. 

몮Had a good summer so far?몯 

몮No, it몭s been lousy,몯 said Harry. 

For the first time, something like a grin flitted across 
Sirius몭s face. 

몮Don몭t know what you몭re complaining about, myself.몯 

몮 What?몯 said Harry incredulously. 

몮Personally, I몭d have welcomed a dementor attack. A 
deadly struggle for my soul would have broken the 
monotony nicely. You think you몭ve had it bad, at least 
you몭ve been able to get out and about, stretch your 
legs, get into a few fights... I몭ve been stuck inside for a 
month.몯 

몮How come?몯 asked Harry, frowning. 

몮Because the Ministry of Magic몭s still after me, and 
Voldemort will know all about me being an Animagus 
by now, Wormtail will have told him, so my big 
disguise is useless. There몭s not much I can do for the 
Order of the Phoenix ... or so Dumbledore feels.몯 

| 107Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




There was something about the slightly flattened tone 
of voice in which Sirius uttered Dumbledore몭s name 
that told Harry that Sirius was not very happy with 
the headmaster either. Harry felt a sudden upsurge of 
affection for his godfather. 

몮At least you몭ve known what몭s been going on,몯 he said 
bracingly. 

몮Oh yeah,몯 said Sirius sarcastically. 몮Listening to 
Snape몭s reports, having to take all his snide hints that 
he몭s out there risking his life while I몭m sat on my 
backside here having a nice comfortable time . . . 
asking me how the cleaning몭s going 멪 몯 

몮What cleaning?몯 asked Harry. 

몮Trying to make this place fit for human habitation,몯 
said Sirius, waving a hand around the dismal 
kitchen. 몮No one몭s lived here for ten years, not since 
my dear mother died, unless you count her old 
house-elf, and he몭s gone round the twist, hasn몭t 
cleaned anything in ages 멪 몯 

몮Sirius?몯 said Mundungus, who did not appear to 
have paid any attention to this conversation, but had 
been minutely examining an empty goblet. 몮This solid 
silver, mate?몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Sirius, surveying it with distaste. 몮Finest 
fifteenth-century goblin-wrought silver, embossed 
with the Black family crest.몯 

몮That몭d come off, though,몯 muttered Mundungus, 
polishing it with his cuff. 

몮Fred 멪 George 멪 NO, JUST CARRY THEM!몯 Mrs. 
Weasley shrieked. 



| 108Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry, Sirius, and Mundungus looked around and, a 
split second later, dived away from the table. Fred 
and George had bewitched a large cauldron of stew, 
an iron flagon of butterbeer, and a heavy wooden 
breadboard, complete with knife, to hurtle through 
the air toward them. The stew skidded the length of 
the table and came to a halt just before the end, 
leaving a long black burn on the wooden surface, the 
flagon of butterbeer fell with a crash, spilling its 
contents everywhere, and the bread knife slipped off 
the board and landed, point down and quivering 
ominously, exactly where Sirius몭s right hand had 
been seconds before. 

몮FOR HEAVEN몭S SAKE!몯 screamed Mrs. Weasley. 
몮THERE WAS NO NEED 멪 IVE HAD ENOUGH OF 
THIS 멪 JUST BECAUSE YOU몭RE ALLOWED TO USE 
MAGIC NOW YOU DONT HAVE TO WHIP YOUR 
WANDS OUT FOR EVERY TINY LITTLE THING!몯 

몮We were just trying to save a bit of time!몯 said Fred, 
hurrying forward and wrenching the bread knife out 
of the table. 몮Sorry Sirius, mate 멪 didn몭t mean to 멪 몯 

Harry and Sirius were both laughing. Mundungus, 
who had toppled backward off his chair, was swearing 
as he got to his feet. Crookshanks had given an angry 
hiss and shot off under the dresser, from whence his 
large yellow eyes glowed in the darkness. 

몮Boys,몯 Mr. Weasley said, lifting the stew back into 
the middle of the table, 몮your mother몭s right, you몭re 
supposed to show a sense of responsibility now you몭ve 
come of age 멪 몯 

몮 멪 none of your brothers caused this sort of trouble!몯 
Mrs. Weasley raged at the twins, slamming a fresh 
flagon of butterbeer onto the table and spilling almost 
as much again. 몮Bill didn몭t feel the need to Apparate 

| 109Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




every few feet! Charlie didn몭t Charm everything he 
met! Percy 멪 몯 

She stopped dead, catching her breath with a 
frightened look at her husband, whose expression 
was suddenly wooden. 

몮Let몭s eat,몯 said Bill quickly. 

몮It looks wonderful, Molly,몯 said Lupin, ladling stew 
onto a plate for her and handing it across the table. 

For a few minutes there was silence but for the chink 
of plates and cutlery and the scraping of chairs as 
everyone settled down to their food. Then Mrs. 

Weasley turned to Sirius and said, 몮I몭ve been meaning 
to tell you, there몭s something trapped in that writing 
desk in the drawing room, it keeps rattling and 
shaking. Of course, it could just be a boggart, but I 
thought we ought to ask Alastor to have a look at it 
before we let it out.몯 

몮Whatever you like,몯 said Sirius indifferently. 

몮The curtains in there are full of doxies too,몯 Mrs. 
Weasley went on. 몮I thought we might try and tackle 
them tomorrow.몯 

몮I look forward to it,몯 said Sirius. Harry heard the 
sarcasm in his voice, but he was not sure that anyone 
else did. 

Opposite Harry, Tonks was entertaining Hermione 
and Ginny by transforming her nose between 
mouthfuls. Screwing up her eyes each time with the 
same pained expression she had worn back in Harry몭s 
bedroom, her nose swelled to a beaklike protuberance 
like Snape몭s, shrank to something resembling a 
button mushroom, and then sprouted a great deal of 
| llOHarry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




hair from each nostril. Apparently this was a regular 
mealtime entertainment, because after a while 
Hermione and Ginny started requesting their favorite 
noses. 

몮Do that one like a pig snout, Tonks ...몯 

Tonks obliged, and Harry, looking up, had the fleeting 
impression that a female Dudley was grinning at him 
from across the table. 

Mr. Weasley, Bill, and Lupin were having an intense 
discussion about goblins. 

몮They몭re not giving anything away yet,몯 said Bill. 몮I 
still can몭t work out whether they believe he몭s back or 
not. 몭Course, they might prefer not to take sides at all. 
Keep out of it.몯 

몮I몭m sure they몭d never go over to You-Know-Who,몯 
said Mr. Weasley, shaking his head. 몮They몭ve suffered 
losses too. Remember that goblin family he murdered 
last time, somewhere near Nottingham?몯 

몮I think it depends what they몭re offered,몯 said Lupin. 
몮And I몭m not talking about gold; if they몭re offered 
freedoms we몭ve been denying them for centuries 
they몭re going to be tempted. Have you still not had 
any luck with Ragnok, Bill?몯 

몮He몭s feeling pretty anti-wizard at the moment,몯 said 
Bill. 몮He hasn몭t stopped raging about the Bagman 
business, he reckons the Ministry did a cover-up, 
those goblins never got their gold from him, you know 



A gale of laughter from the middle of the table 
drowned the rest of Bill몭s words. Fred, George, Ron, 
and Mundungus were rolling around in their seats. 

| lllHarry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




"... and then,몯 choked Mundungus, tears running 
down his face, 몮and then, if you몭ll believe it, 몭e says to 
me, 몭e says, 몬몭ere, Dung, where didja get all them toads 
from? 몭Cos some son of a Bludger몭s gone and nicked 
all mine!몭 And I says, 몬Nicked all your toads, Will, 
what next? So you몭ll be wanting some more, then?몭 
And if you몭ll believe me, lads, the gormless gargoyle 
buys all 몭is own toads back orf me for twice what 몭e 
paid in the first place 멪 뫃몯 

몮I don몭t think we need to hear any more of your 
business dealings, thank you very much, 
Mundungus,몯 said Mrs. Weasley sharply, as Ron 
slumped forward onto the table, howling with 
laughter. 

몮Beg pardon, Molly,몯 said Mundungus at once, wiping 
his eyes and winking at Harry. 몮But, you know, Will 
nicked 몭em orf Warty Harris in the first place so I 
wasn몭t really doing nothing wrong 멪 몯 

몮I don몭t know where you learned about right and 
wrong, Mundungus, but you seem to have missed a 
few crucial lessons,몯 said Mrs. Weasley coldly. 

Fred and George buried their faces in their goblets of 
butterbeer; George was hiccuping. For some reason, 
Mrs. Weasley threw a very nasty look at Sirius before 
getting to her feet and going to fetch a large rhubarb 
crumble for pudding. Harry looked round at his 
godfather. 

몮Molly doesn몭t approve of Mundungus,몯 said Sirius in 
an undertone. 

몮How come he몭s in the Order?몯 Harry said very 
quietly. 



| 112Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮He몭s useful,몯 Sirius muttered. 몮Knows all the crooks 
멪 well, he would, seeing as he몭s one himself. But he몭s 
also very loyal to Dumbledore, who helped him out of 
a tight spot once. It pays to have someone like Dung 
around, he hears things we don몭t. But Molly thinks 
inviting him to stay for dinner is going too far. She 
hasn몭t forgiven him for slipping off duty when he was 
supposed to be tailing you.몯 

Three helpings of rhubarb crumble and custard later 
and the waistband on Harry몭s jeans was feeling 
uncomfortably tight (which was saying something, as 
the jeans had once been Dudley몭s). He lay down his 
spoon in a lull in the general conversation. Mr. 
Weasley was leaning back in his chair, looking replete 
and relaxed, Tonks was yawning widely, her nose now 
back to normal, and Ginny, who had lured 
Crookshanks out from under the dresser, was sitting 
cross-legged on the floor, rolling butterbeer corks for 
him to chase. 

몮Nearly time for bed, I think,몯 said Mrs. Weasley on a 
yawn. 

몮Not just yet, Molly,몯 said Sirius, pushing away his 
empty plate and turning to look at Harry. 몮You know, 
I몭m surprised at you. I thought the first thing you몭d do 
when you got here would be to start asking questions 
about Voldemort.몯 

The atmosphere in the room changed with the 
rapidity Harry associated with the arrival of 
dementors. Where seconds before it had been sleepily 
relaxed, it was now alert, even tense. A frisson had 
gone around the table at the mention of Voldemort몭s 
name. Lupin, who had been about to take a sip of 
wine, lowered his goblet slowly, looking wary. 



| 113Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I did!몯 said Harry indignantly. 몮I asked Ron and 
Hermione but they said we몭re not allowed in the 
Order, so 멪 몯 

몮And they몭re quite right,몯 said Mrs. Weasley. 몮You몭re 
too young.몯 

She was sitting bolt upright in her chair, her fists 
clenched upon its arms, every trace of drowsiness 
gone. 

몮Since when did someone have to be in the Order of 
the Phoenix to ask questions?몯 asked Sirius. 몮Harry몭s 
been trapped in that Muggle house for a month. He몭s 
got the right to know what몭s been happen 멪 몯 

몮Hang on!몯 interrupted George loudly. 

몮How come Harry gets his questions answered?몯 said 
Fred angrily. 

몮 We몭ve been trying to get stuff out of you for a month 
and you haven몭t told us a single stinking thing!몯 said 
George. 

몮 몬You몭re too young, you몭re not in the Order,몭 몯 said 
Fred, in a high-pitched voice that sounded uncannily 
like his mother몭s. 몮Harry몭s not even of age!몯 

몮It몭s not my fault you haven몭t been told what the 
Order몭s doing,몯 said Sirius calmly. 몮That몭s your 
parents몭 decision. Harry, on the other hand 멪 몯 

몮It몭s not down to you to decide what몭s good for Harry!몯 
said Mrs. Weasley sharply. Her normally kindly face 
looked dangerous. 몮You haven몭t forgotten what 
Dumbledore said, I suppose?몯 



| 114Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Which bit?몯 Sirius asked politely, but with an air as 
though readying himself for a fight. 

몮The bit about not telling Harry more than he needs 
to know,몯 said Mrs. Weasley, placing a heavy 
emphasis on the last three words. 

Ron, Hermione, Fred, and George몭s heads turned from 
Sirius to Mrs. Weasley as though following a tennis 
rally. Ginny was kneeling amid a pile of abandoned 
butterbeer corks, watching the conversation with her 
mouth slightly open. Lupin몭s eyes were fixed on 
Sirius. 

몮I don몭t intend to tell him more than he needs to 
know, Molly,몯 said Sirius. 몮But as he was the one who 
saw Voldemort come back몯 (again, there was a 
collective shudder around the table at the name), 몮he 
has more right than most to 멪 몯 

몮He몭s not a member of the Order of the Phoenix!몯 said 
Mrs. Weasley. 몮He몭s only fifteen and 멪 몯 

몮 멪 and he몭s dealt with as much as most in the 
Order,몯 said Sirius, 몮and more than some 멪 몯 

몮No one몭s denying what he몭s done!몯 said Mrs. Weasley, 
her voice rising, her fists trembling on the arms of her 
chair. 몮But he몭s still 멪 몯 

몮He몭s not a child!몯 said Sirius impatiently. 

몮He몭s not an adult either!몯 said Mrs. Weasley, the 
color rising in her cheeks. 몮He몭s not James, Sirius!몯 

몮I몭m perfectly clear who he is, thanks, Molly,몯 said 
Sirius coldly. 



| 115Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몬Tm not sure you are!몯 said Mrs. Weasley. 

몮Sometimes, the way you talk about him, it몭s as 
though you think you몭ve got your best friend back!몯 

몮What몭s wrong with that?몯 said Harry. 

몮What몭s wrong, Harry, is that you are not your father, 
however much you might look like him!몯 said Mrs. 
Weasley, her eyes still boring into Sirius. 몮You are still 
at school and adults responsible for you should not 
forget it!몯 

몮Meaning I몭m an irresponsible godfather?몯 demanded 
Sirius, his voice rising. 

몮Meaning you몭ve been known to act rashly, Sirius, 
which is why Dumbledore keeps reminding you to 
stay at home and 멪 몯 

몮We몭ll leave my instructions from Dumbledore out of 
this, if you please!몯 said Sirius loudly. 

몮Arthur!몯 said Mrs. Weasley, rounding on her 
husband. 몮Arthur, back me up!몯 

Mr. Weasley did not speak at once. He took off his 
glasses and cleaned them slowly on his robes, not 
looking at his wife. Only when he had replaced them 
carefully on his nose did he say, 몮Dumbledore knows 
the position has changed, Molly. He accepts that 
Harry will have to be filled in to a certain extent now 
that he is staying at headquarters 멪 몯 

몮Yes, but there몭s a difference between that and 
inviting him to ask whatever he likes!몯 

몮Personally,몯 said Lupin quietly, looking away from 
Sirius at last, as Mrs. Weasley turned quickly to him, 
hopeful that finally she was about to get an ally, 몮I 

| 116Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




think it better that Harry gets the facts 멪 not all the 
facts, Molly, but the general picture 멪 from us, rather 
than a garbled version from ... others.몯 

His expression was mild, but Harry felt sure that 
Lupin, at least, knew that some Extendable Ears had 
survived Mrs. Weasley몭s purge. 

몮Well,몯 said Mrs. Weasley, breathing deeply and 
looking around the table for support that did not 
come, 몮well ... I can see I몭m going to be overruled. I몭ll 
just say this: Dumbledore must have had his reasons 
for not wanting Harry to know too much, and 
speaking as someone who has got Harry몭s best 
interests at heart 멪 몯 

몮He몭s not your son,몯 said Sirius quietly. 

몮He몭s as good as,몯 said Mrs. Weasley fiercely. 몮Who 
else has he got?몯 

몮He몭s got me!몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Mrs. Weasley, her lip curling. 몮The thing 
is, it몭s been rather difficult for you to look after him 
while you몭ve been locked up in Azkaban, hasn몭t it?몯 

Sirius started to rise from his chair. 

몮Molly, you몭re not the only person at this table who 
cares about Harry,몯 said Lupin sharply. 몮Sirius, sit 
down.몯 

Mrs. Weasley몭s lower lip was trembling. Sirius sank 
slowly back into his chair, his face white. 

몮I think Harry ought to be allowed a say in this,몯 

Lupin continued. 몮He몭s old enough to decide for 
himself.몯 

| 117Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I want to know what몭s been going on,몯 Harry said at 
once. 

He did not look at Mrs. Weasley. He had been touched 
by what she had said about his being as good as a 
son, but he was also impatient at her mollycoddling. . . 
Sirius was right, he was not a child. 

몮Very well,몯 said Mrs. Weasley, her voice cracking. 
몮Ginny 멪 Ron 멪 Hermione 멪 Fred 멪 George 멪 I 
want you out of this kitchen, now.몯 

There was instant uproar. 

몮We몭re of age!몯 Fred and George bellowed together. 

몮If Harry몭s allowed, why can몭t I?몯 shouted Ron. 

몮Mum, I want to!몯 wailed Ginny. 

몮NO!몯 shouted Mrs. Weasley, standing up, her eyes 
overbright. 몮I absolutely forbid 멪 몯 

몮Molly, you can몭t stop Fred and George,몯 said Mr. 
Weasley wearily. 몮They are of age 멪 몯 

몮They몭re still at school 멪 몯 

몮But they몭re legally adults now,몯 said Mr. Weasley in 
the same tired voice. 

Mrs. Weasley was now scarlet in the face. 

몮I 멪 oh, all right then, Fred and George can stay, but 
Ron 멪 몯 

몮Harry몭ll tell me and Hermione everything you say 
anyway!몯 said Ron hotly. 몮Won몭t 멪 won몭t you?몯 he 
added uncertainly, meeting Harry몭s eyes. 

| 118Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




For a split second, Harry considered telling Ron that 
he wouldn몭t tell him a single word, that he could try a 
taste of being kept in the dark and see how he liked 
it. But the nasty impulse vanished as they looked at 
each other. 

몮 몭Course I will,몯 Harry said. Ron and Hermione 
beamed. 

몮Fine!몯 shouted Mrs. Weasley. 몮Fine! Ginny 멪 BED!몯 

Ginny did not go quietly. They could hear her raging 
and storming at her mother all the way up the stairs, 
and when she reached the hall Mrs. Black몭s 
earsplitting shrieks were added to the din. Lupin 
hurried off to the portrait to restore calm. It was only 
after he had returned, closing the kitchen door 
behind him and taking his seat at the table again, 
that Sirius spoke. 

몮Okay, Harry ... what do you want to know?몯 

Harry took a deep breath and asked the question that 
had been obsessing him for a month. 

몮Where몭s Voldemort? What몭s he doing? I몭ve been trying 
to watch the Muggle news,몯 he said, ignoring the 
renewed shudders and winces at the name, 몮and 
there hasn몭t been anything that looks like him yet, no 
funny deaths or anything 멪 몯 

몮That몭s because there haven몭t been any suspicious 
deaths yet,몯 said Sirius, 몮not as far as we know, 
anyway... And we know quite a lot.몯 

몮More than he thinks we do anyway,몯 said Lupin. 



| 119Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮How come he몭s stopped killing people?몯 Harry asked. 
He knew that Voldemort had murdered more than 
once in the last year alone. 

몮Because he doesn몭t want to draw attention to himself 
at the moment,몯 said Sirius. 몮It would be dangerous 
for him. His comeback didn몭t come off quite the way 
he wanted it to, you see. He messed it up.몯 

몮Or rather, you messed it up for him,몯 said Lupin with 
a satisfied smile. 

몮How?몯 Harry asked perplexedly. 

몮You weren몭t supposed to survive!몯 said Sirius. 
몮Nobody apart from his Death Eaters was supposed to 
know he몭d come back. But you survived to bear 
witness.몯 

몮And the very last person he wanted alerted to his 
return the moment he got back was Dumbledore,몯 
said Lupin. 몮And you made sure Dumbledore knew at 
once.몯 

몮How has that helped?몯 Harry asked. 

몮Are you kidding?몯 said Bill incredulously. 
몮Dumbledore was the only one You-Know-Who was 
ever scared of!몯 

몮Thanks to you, Dumbledore was able to recall the 
Order of the Phoenix about an hour after Voldemort 
returned,몯 said Sirius. 

몮So what몭s the Order been doing?몯 said Harry, looking 
around at them all. 

몮Working as hard as we can to make sure Voldemort 
can몭t carry out his plans,몯 said Sirius. 

| 120Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮How d몭you know what his plans are?몯 Harry asked 
quickly. 



몮Dumbledore몭s got a shrewd idea,몯 said Lupin, 몮and 
Dumbledore몭s shrewd ideas normally turn out to be 
accurate.몯 

몮So what does Dumbledore reckon he몭s planning?몯 

몮Well, firstly, he wants to build up his army again,몯 
said Sirius. 몮In the old days he had huge numbers at 
his command; witches and wizards he몭d bullied or 
bewitched into following him, his faithful Death 
Eaters, a great variety of Dark creatures. You heard 
him planning to recruit the giants; well, they몭ll be just 
one group he몭s after. He몭s certainly not going to try 
and take on the Ministry of Magic with only a dozen 
Death Eaters.몯 

몮So you몭re trying to stop him getting more followers?몯 
몮We몭re doing our best,몯 said Lupin. 

몮How?몯 

몮Well, the main thing is to try and convince as many 
people as possible that You-Know-Who really has 
returned, to put them on their guard,몯 said Bill. 몮It몭s 
proving tricky, though.몯 

몮Why?몯 

몮Because of the Ministry몭s attitude,몯 said Tonks. 몮You 
saw Cornelius Fudge after You-Know-Who came back, 
Harry. Well, he hasn몭t shifted his position at all. He몭s 
absolutely refusing to believe it몭s happened.몯 

몮But why?몯 said Harry desperately. 몮Why몭s he being 
so stupid? If Dumbledore 멪 몯 

| 121Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Ah, well, you몭ve put your finger on the problem,몯 said 
Mr. Weasley with a wry smile. 몮Dumbledore.몯 

몮Fudge is frightened of him, you see,몯 said Tonks 
sadly. 

몮Frightened of Dumbledore?몯 said Harry 
incredulously. 

몮Frightened of what he몭s up to,몯 said Mr. Weasley. 
몮You see, Fudge thinks Dumbledore몭s plotting to 
overthrow him. He thinks Dumbledore wants to be 
Minister of Magic.몯 

몮But Dumbledore doesn몭t want 멪 몯 

몮Of course he doesn몭t,몯 said Mr. Weasley. 몮He몭s never 
wanted the Minister몭s job, even though a lot of people 
wanted him to take it when Millicent Bagnold retired. 
Fudge came to power instead, but he몭s never quite 
forgotten how much popular support Dumbledore 
had, even though Dumbledore never applied for the 
job.몯 

몮Deep down, Fudge knows Dumbledore몭s much 
cleverer than he is, a much more powerful wizard, 
and in the early days of his Ministry he was forever 
asking Dumbledore for help and advice,몯 said Lupin. 
몮But it seems that he몭s become fond of power now, 
and much more confident. He loves being Minister of 
Magic, and he몭s managed to convince himself that 
he몭s the clever one and Dumbledore몭s simply stirring 
up trouble for the sake of it.몯 

몮How can he think that?몯 said Harry angrily. 몮How 
can he think Dumbledore would just make it all up 멪 
that I몭d make it all up?몯 



| 122Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Because accepting that Voldemort몭s back would 
mean trouble like the Ministry hasn몭t had to cope 
with for nearly fourteen years,몯 said Sirius bitterly. 
몮Fudge just can몭t bring himself to face it. It몭s so much 
more comfortable to convince himself Dumbledore몭s 
lying to destabilize him.몯 

몮You see the problem,몯 said Lupin. 몮While the 
Ministry insists there is nothing to fear from 
Voldemort, it몭s hard to convince people he몭s back, 
especially as they really don몭t want to believe it in the 
first place. What몭s more, the Ministry몭s leaning heavily 
on the Daily Prophet not to report any of what they몭re 
calling Dumbledore몭s rumormongering, so most of the 
Wizarding community are completely unaware 
anything몭s happened, and that makes them easy 
targets for the Death Eaters if they몭re using the 
Imperius Curse.몯 

몮But you몭re telling people, aren몭t you?몯 said Harry, 
looking around at Mr. Weasley, Sirius, Bill, 
Mundungus, Lupin, and Tonks. 몮You몭re letting people 
know he몭s back?몯 

They all smiled humorlessly. 

몮Well, as everyone thinks I몭m a mad mass murderer 
and the Ministry몭s put a ten-thousand-Galleon price 
on my head, I can hardly stroll up the street and start 
handing out leaflets, can I?몯 said Sirius restlessly. 

몮And I몭m not a very popular dinner guest with most of 
the community,몯 said Lupin. 몮It몭s an occupational 
hazard of being a werewolf.몯 

몮Tonks and Arthur would lose their jobs at the 
Ministry if they started shooting their mouths off,몯 
said Sirius, 몮and it몭s very important for us to have 



| 123Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




spies inside the Ministry, because you can bet 
Voldemort will have them.몯 

몮We몭ve managed to convince a couple of people, 
though,몯 said Mr. Weasley. 몮Tonks here, for one 멪 
she몭s too young to have been in the Order of the 
Phoenix last time, and having Aurors on our side is a 
huge advantage 멪 Kingsley Shacklebolt몭s been a real 
asset too. He몭s in charge of the hunt for Sirius, so he몭s 
been feeding the Ministry information that Sirius is in 
Tibet.몯 

몮But if none of you몭s putting the news out that 
Voldemort 몭s back 멪 몯 Harry began. 

몮Who said none of us was putting the news out?몯 said 
Sirius. 몮Why d몭you think Dumbledore몭s in such 
trouble?몯 

몮What d몭you mean?몯 Harry asked. 

몮They몭re trying to discredit him,몯 said Lupin. 몮Didn몭t 
you see the Daily Prophet last week? They reported 
that he몭d been voted out of the Chairmanship of the 
International Confederation of Wizards because he몭s 
getting old and losing his grip, but it몭s not true, he 
was voted out by Ministry wizards after he made a 
speech announcing Voldemort몭s return. They몭ve 
demoted him from Chief Warlock on the Wizengamot 
멪 that몭s the Wizard High Court 멪 and they몭re talking 
about taking away his Order of Merlin, First Class, 
too.몯 

몮But Dumbledore says he doesn몭t care what they do 
as long as they don몭t take him off the Chocolate Frog 
cards,몯 said Bill, grinning. 

몮It몭s no laughing matter,몯 said Mr. Weasley shortly. 몮If 
he carries on defying the Ministry like this, he could 

| 124Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




end up in Azkaban and the last thing we want is 
Dumbledore locked up. While You-Know-Who knows 
Dumbledore몭s out there and wise to what he몭s up to, 
he몭s going to go cautiously for a while. If 
Dumbledore몭s out of the way 멪 well, You-Know-Who 
will have a clear field.몯 

몮But if Voldemort몭s trying to recruit more Death 
Eaters, it몭s bound to get out that he몭s come back, isn몭t 
it?몯 asked Harry desperately. 

몮Voldemort doesn몭t march up to people몭s houses and 
bang on their front doors, Harry,몯 said Sirius. 몮He 
tricks, jinxes, and blackmails them. He몭s well- 
practiced at operating in secrecy. In any case, 
gathering followers is only one thing he몭s interested 
in, he몭s got other plans too, plans he can put into 
operation very quietly indeed, and he몭s concentrating 
on them at the moment.몯 

몮What몭s he after apart from followers?몯 Harry asked 
swiftly. 

He thought he saw Sirius and Lupin exchange the 
most fleeting of looks before Sirius said, 몮Stuff he can 
only get by stealth.몯 

When Harry continued to look puzzled, Sirius said, 
몮Like a weapon. Something he didn몭t have last time.몯 

몮When he was powerful before?몯 

몮Yes.몯 

몮Like what kind of weapon?몯 said Harry. 몮Something 
worse than the Avada Kedavra 멪 ?몯 

몮That몭s enough.몯 



| 125Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Mrs. Weasley spoke from the shadows beside the 
door. Harry had not noticed her return from taking 
Ginny upstairs. Her arms were crossed and she 
looked furious. 

몮I want you in bed, now. All of you,몯 she added, 
looking around at Fred, George, Ron, and Hermione. 

몮You can몭t boss us 멪 몯 Fred began. 

몮Watch me,몯 snarled Mrs. Weasley. She was trembling 
slightly as she looked at Sirius. 몮You몭ve given Harry 
plenty of information. Any more and you might just 
as well induct him into the Order straightaway.몯 

몮Why not?몯 said Harry quickly. 몮I몭ll join, I want to join, 
I want to fight 멪 몯 

몮No.몯 

It was not Mrs. Weasley who spoke this time, but 
Lupin. 

몮The Order is comprised only of overage wizards,몯 he 
said. 몮Wizards who have left school,몯 he added, as 
Fred and George opened their mouths. 몮There are 
dangers involved of which you can have no idea, any 
of you ... I think Molly몭s right, Sirius. We몭ve said 
enough.몯 

Sirius half-shrugged but did not argue. Mrs. Weasley 
beckoned imperiously to her sons and Hermione. One 
by one they stood up and Harry, recognizing defeat, 
followed suit. 



| 126Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 







THE NOBLE AND MOST ANCIENT 
HOUSE OF BLACK 

Mrs. Weasley followed them upstairs looking grim. 

몮I want you all to go straight to bed, no talking,몯 she 
said as they reached the first landing. 몮We몭ve got a 
busy day tomorrow. I expect Ginny몭s asleep,몯 she 
added to Hermione, 몮so try not to wake her up.몯 

몮Asleep, yeah, right,몯 said Fred in an undertone, after 
Hermione bade them good night and they were 
climbing to the next floor. 몮If Ginny몭s not lying awake 
waiting for Hermione to tell her everything they said 
downstairs, then I몭m a flobberworm...몯 

몮All right, Ron, Harry,몯 said Mrs. Weasley on the 
second landing, pointing them into their bedroom. 

몮Off to bed with you.몯 

몮 몭Night,몯 Harry and Ron said to the twins. 

몮Sleep tight,몯 said Fred, winking. 

| 127Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



Mrs. Weasley closed the door behind Harry with a 
sharp snap. The bedroom looked, if anything, even 
danker and gloomier than it had on first sight. The 
blank picture on the wall was now breathing very 
slowly and deeply, as though its invisible occupant 
was asleep. Harry put on his pajamas, took off his 
glasses, and climbed into his chilly bed while Ron 
threw Owl Treats up on top of the wardrobe to pacify 
Hedwig and Pigwidgeon, who were clattering around 
and rustling their wings restlessly. 

몮We can몭t let them out to hunt every night,몯 Ron 
explained as he pulled on his maroon pajamas. 
몮Dumbledore doesn몭t want too many owls swooping 
around the square, thinks it몭ll look suspicious. Oh 
yeah ... I forgot...몯 

He crossed to the door and bolted it. 

몮What 몭re you doing that for?몯 

몮Kreacher,몯 said Ron as he turned off the light. 몮First 
night I was here he came wandering in at three in the 
morning. Trust me, you don몭t want to wake up and 
find him prowling around your room. Anyway ...몯 He 
got into his bed, settled down under the covers, then 
turned to look at Harry in the darkness. Harry could 
see his outline by the moonlight filtering in through 
the grimy window. 몮What d몭you reckon?몯 

Harry didn몭t need to ask what Ron meant. 

몮Well, they didn몭t tell us much we couldn몭t have 
guessed, did they?몯 he said, thinking of all that had 
been said downstairs. 몮I mean, all they몭ve really said 
is that the Order몭s trying to stop people joining Vol 멪 몯 

There was a sharp intake of breath from Ron. 



| 128Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮 멪 demort몯 said Harry firmly. 몮When are you going to 
start using his name? Sirius and Lupin do.몯 



Ron ignored this last comment. 몮Yeah, you몭re right,몯 
he said. 몮We already knew nearly everything they told 
us, from using the Extendable Ears. The only new bit 
was 멪 몯 

Crack. 

몮OUCH!몯 

몮Keep your voice down, Ron, or Mum몭ll be back up 
here.몯 

몮You two just Apparated on my knees!몯 

몮Yeah, well, it몭s harder in the dark 멪 몯 

Harry saw the blurred outlines of Fred and George 
leaping down from Ron몭s bed. There was a groan of 
bedsprings and Harry몭s mattress descended a few 
inches as George sat down near his feet. 

몮So, got there yet?몯 said George eagerly. 

몮The weapon Sirius mentioned?몯 said Harry. 

몮Let slip, more like,몯 said Fred with relish, now sitting 
next to Ron. 몮We didn몭t hear about that on the old 
Extendables, did we?몯 

몮What d몭you reckon it is?몯 said Harry. 

몮Could be anything,몯 said Fred. 

몮But there can몭t be anything worse than the Avada 
Kedavra curse, can there?몯 said Ron. 몮What몭s worse 
than death?몯 

| 129Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Maybe it몭s something that can kill loads of people at 
once,몯 suggested George. 

몮Maybe it몭s some particularly painful way of killing 
people,몯 said Ron fearfully. 

몮He몭s got the Cruciatus Curse for causing pain,몯 said 
Harry. 몮He doesn몭t need anything more efficient than 
that.몯 

There was a pause and Harry knew that the others, 
like him, were wondering what horrors this weapon 
could perpetrate. 

몮So who d몭you thinks got it now?몯 asked George. 

몮I hope it몭s our side,몯 said Ron, sounding slightly 
nervous. 

몮If it is, Dumbledore몭s probably keeping it,몯 said Fred. 

몮Where?몯 said Ron quickly. 몮Hogwarts?몯 

몮Bet it is!몯 said George. 몮That몭s where he hid the 
Sorcerer몭s Stone!몯 

몮A weapon몭s going to be a lot bigger than the Stone, 
though!몯 said Ron. 

몮Not necessarily,몯 said Fred. 

몮Yeah, size is no guarantee of power,몯 said George. 
몮Look at Ginny.몯 

몮What d몭you mean?몯 said Harry. 

몮You몭ve never been on the receiving end of one of her 
Bat-Bogey Hexes, have you?몯 



| 130Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Shhh!몯 said Fred, half-rising from the bed. 몮Listen!몯 



They fell silent. Footsteps were coming up the stairs 
again. 

몮Mum,몯 said George, and without further ado there 
was a loud crack and Harry felt the weight vanish 
from the end of his bed. A few seconds later and they 
heard the floorboard creak outside their door; Mrs. 
Weasley was plainly listening to see whether they 
were talking or not. 

Hedwig and Pigwidgeon hooted dolefully. The 
floorboard creaked again and they heard her heading 
upstairs to check on Fred and George. 

몮She doesn몭t trust us at all, you know,몯 said Ron 
regretfully. 

Harry was sure he would not be able to fall asleep; 
the evening had been so packed with things to think 
about that he fully expected to lie awake for hours 
mulling it all over. He wanted to continue talking to 
Ron, but Mrs. Weasley was now creaking back 
downstairs again, and once she had gone he distinctly 
heard others making their way upstairs... In fact, 
many-legged creatures were cantering softly up and 
down outside the bedroom door, and Hagrid, the Care 
of Magical Creatures teacher, was saying, 몮Beauties, 
aren몭 they, eh, Harry? We몭ll be study in몭 weapons this 
term...몯 And Harry saw that the creatures had 
cannons for heads and were wheeling to face him... 

He ducked... 

The next thing he knew, he was curled in a warm ball 
under his bedclothes, and George몭s loud voice was 
filling the room. 



| 131Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Mum says get up, your breakfast is in the kitchen 
and then she needs you in the drawing room, there 
are loads more doxies than she thought and she몭s 
found a nest of dead puffskeins under the sofa.몯 

Half an hour later, Harry and Ron, who had dressed 
and breakfasted quickly, entered the drawing room, a 
long, high-ceilinged room on the first floor with olive- 
green walls covered in dirty tapestries. The carpet 
exhaled little clouds of dust every time someone put 
their foot on it and the long, moss-green velvet 
curtains were buzzing as though swarming with 
invisible bees. It was around these that Mrs. Weasley, 
Hermione, Ginny, Fred, and George were grouped, all 
looking rather peculiar, as they had tied cloths over 
their noses and mouths. Each of them was also 
holding a large bottle of black liquid with a nozzle at 
the end. 

몮Cover your faces and take a spray,몯 Mrs. Weasley 
said to Harry and Ron the moment she saw them, 
pointing to two more bottles of black liquid standing 
on a spindle-legged table. 몮It몭s Doxycide. I몭ve never 
seen an infestation this bad 멪 what that house-elf몭s 
been doing for the last ten years 멪 몯 

Hermione 몭s face was half concealed by a tea towel but 
Harry distinctly saw her throw a reproachful look at 
Mrs. Weasley at these words. 

몮Kreacher몭s really old, he probably couldn몭t manage 멪 



몮You몭d be surprised what Kreacher can manage when 
he wants to, Hermione,몯 said Sirius, who had just 
entered the room carrying a bloodstained bag of what 
appeared to be dead rats. 몮I몭ve just been feeding 
Buckbeak,몯 he added, in reply to Harry몭s inquiring 



| 132Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




look. 몮I keep him upstairs in my mother몭s bedroom. 
Anyway ... this writing desk ...몯 

He dropped the bag of rats onto an armchair, then 
bent over to examine the locked cabinet which, Harry 
now noticed for the first time, was shaking slightly. 

몮Well, Molly, I몭m pretty sure this is a boggart,몯 said 
Sirius, peering through the keyhole, 몮but perhaps we 
ought to let Mad-Eye have a shifty at it before we let it 
out 멪 knowing my mother it could be something 
much worse.몯 

몮Right you are, Sirius,몯 said Mrs. Weasley. 

They were both speaking in carefully light, polite 
voices that told Harry quite plainly that neither had 
forgotten their disagreement of the night before. 

A loud, clanging bell sounded from downstairs, 
followed at once by the cacophony of screams and 
wails that had been triggered the previous night by 
Tonks knocking over the umbrella stand. 

몮I keep telling them not to ring the doorbell!몯 said 
Sirius exasperatedly, hurrying back out of the room. 
They heard him thundering down the stairs as Mrs. 
Black몭s screeches echoed up through the house once 
more: 몮Stains of dishonor, filthy half-breeds, blood 
traitors, children of filth ...몯 

몮Close the door, please, Harry,몯 said Mrs. Weasley. 

Harry took as much time as he dared to close the 
drawing room door; he wanted to listen to what was 
going on downstairs. Sirius had obviously managed to 
shut the curtains over his mother몭s portrait because 
she had stopped screaming. He heard Sirius walking 
down the hall, then the clattering of the chain on the 
| 133Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




front door, and then a deep voice he recognized as 
Kingsley Shacklebolt몭s saying, 몮Hestia몭s just relieved 
me, so she몭s got Moody몭s cloak now, thought I몭d leave 
a report for Dumbledore...몯 

Feeling Mrs. Weasley몭s eyes on the back of his head, 
Harry regretfully closed the drawing room door and 
rejoined the doxy party. 

Mrs. Weasley was bending over to check the page on 
doxies in Gilderoy Lockhart몭s Guide to Household 
Pests, which was lying open on the sofa. 

몮Right, you lot, you need to be careful, because doxies 
bite and their teeth are poisonous. I몭ve got a bottle of 
antidote here, but I몭d rather nobody needed it.몯 

She straightened up, positioned herself squarely in 
front of the curtains, and beckoned them all forward. 

몮When I say the word, start spraying immediately,몯 
she said. 몮They몭ll come flying out at us, I expect, but it 
says on the sprays one good squirt will paralyze them. 
When they몭re immobilized, just throw them in this 
bucket.몯 

She stepped carefully out of their line of fire and 
raised her own spray. 몮All right 멪 squirti몯 

Harry had been spraying only a few seconds when a 
fully grown doxy came soaring out of a fold in the 
material, shiny beetlelike wings whirring, tiny needle- 
sharp teeth bared, its fairylike body covered with 
thick black hair and its four tiny fists clenched with 
fury. Harry caught it full in the face with a blast of 
Doxycide; it froze in midair and fell, with a 
surprisingly loud thunk, onto the worn carpet below. 
Harry picked it up and threw it in the bucket. 



| 134Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Fred, what are you doing?몯 said Mrs. Weasley 
sharply. 몮Spray that at once and throw it away!몯 

Harry looked around. Fred was holding a struggling 
doxy between his forefinger and thumb. 

몮Right-o,몯 Fred said brightly, spraying the doxy 
quickly in the face so that it fainted, but the moment 
Mrs. Weasley몭s back was turned he pocketed it with a 
wink. 

몮We want to experiment with doxy venom for our 
Skiving Snack-boxes,몯 George told Harry under his 
breath. 

Deftly spraying two doxies at once as they soared 
straight for his nose, Harry moved closer to George 
and muttered out of the corner of his mouth, 몮What 
are Skiving Snackboxes?몯 

몮Range of sweets to make you ill,몯 George whispered, 
keeping a wary eye on Mrs. Weasley몭s back. 몮Not 
seriously ill, mind, just ill enough to get you out of a 
class when you feel like it. Fred and I have been 
developing them this summer. They몭re double-ended, 
color-coded chews. If you eat the orange half of the 
Puking Pastilles, you throw up. Moment you몭ve been 
rushed out of the lesson for the hospital wing, you 
swallow the purple half 멪 몯 

몮 몬 멪 which restores you to full fitness, enabling you to 
pursue the leisure activity of your own choice during 
an hour that would otherwise have been devoted to 
unprofitable boredom.몭 That몭s what we몭re putting in 
the adverts, anyway,몯 whispered Fred, who had edged 
over out of Mrs. Weasley몭s line of vision and was now 
sweeping a few stray doxies from the floor and adding 
them to his pocket. 몮But they still need a bit of work. 
At the moment our testers are having a bit of trouble 
| 135Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




stopping puking long enough to swallow the purple 
end.몯 



몮Testers?몯 

몮Us,몯 said Fred. 몮We take it in turns. George did the 
Fainting Fancies 멪 we both tried the Nosebleed 
Nougat 멪 몯 

몮Mum thought we몭d been dueling,몯 said George. 

몮Joke shop still on, then?몯 Harry muttered, 
pretending to be adjusting the nozzle on his spray. 

몮Well, we haven몭t had a chance to get premises yet,몯 
said Fred, dropping his voice even lower as Mrs. 
Weasley mopped her brow with her scarf before 
returning to the attack, 몮so we몭re running it as a mail- 
order service at the moment. We put advertisements 
in the Daily Prophet last week.몯 

몮All thanks to you, mate,몯 said George. 몮But don몭t 
worry ... Mum hasn몭t got a clue. She won몭t read the 
Daily Prophet anymore, 몭cause of it telling lies about 
you and Dumbledore.몯 

Harry grinned. He had forced the Weasley twins to 
take the thousand-Galleon prize money he had won 
in the Triwizard Tournament to help them realize 
their ambition to open a joke shop, but he was still 
glad to know that his part in furthering their plans 
was unknown to Mrs. Weasley, who did not think that 
running a joke shop was a suitable career for two of 
her sons. 

The de-doxying of the curtains took most of the 
morning. It was past midday when Mrs. Weasley 
finally removed her protective scarf, sank into a 
sagging armchair, and sprang up again with a cry of 

| 136Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




disgust, having sat on the bag of dead rats. The 
curtains were no longer buzzing; they hung limp and 
damp from the intensive spraying; unconscious 
doxies lay crammed in the bucket at the foot of them 
beside a bowl of their black eggs, at which 
Crookshanks was now sniffing and Fred and George 
were shooting covetous looks. 

몮I think well tackle those after lunch.몯 

Mrs. Weasley pointed at the dusty glass-fronted 
cabinets standing on either side of the mantelpiece. 
They were crammed with an odd assortment of 
objects: a selection of rusty daggers, claws, a coiled 
snakeskin, a number of tarnished silver boxes 
inscribed with languages Harry could not understand 
and, least pleasant of all, an ornate crystal bottle with 
a large opal set into the stopper, full of what Harry 
was quite sure was blood. 

The clanging doorbell rang again. Everyone looked at 
Mrs. Weasley. 

몮Stay here,몯 she said firmly, snatching up the bag of 
rats as Mrs. Blacks screeches started up again from 
down below. 몮I몭ll bring up some sandwiches.몯 

She left the room, closing the door carefully behind 
her. At once, everyone dashed over to the window to 
look down onto the doorstep. They could see the top 
of an unkempt gingery head and a stack of 
precariously balanced cauldrons. 

몮Mundungus!몯 said Hermione. 몮What몭s he brought all 
those cauldrons for?몯 

몮Probably looking for a safe place to keep them,몯 said 
Harry. 몮Isn몭t that what he was doing the night he was 



| 137Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




supposed to be tailing me? Picking up dodgy 
cauldrons?몯 



몮Yeah, you몭re right!몯 said Fred, as the front door 
opened; Mundungus heaved his cauldrons through it 
and disappeared from view. 몮Blimey, Mum won몭t like 
that...몯 

He and George crossed to the door and stood beside 
it, listening intently. Mrs. Black몭s screaming had 
stopped again. 

몮Mundungus is talking to Sirius and Kingsley,몯 Fred 
muttered, frowning with concentration. 몮Can몭t hear 
properly ... d몭you reckon we can risk the Extendable 
Ears?몯 

몮Might be worth it,몯 said George. 몮I could sneak 
upstairs and get a pair 멪 몯 

But at that precise moment there was an explosion of 
sound from downstairs that rendered Extendable 
Ears quite unnecessary. All of them could hear 
exactly what Mrs. Weasley was shouting at the top of 
her voice. 

몮WE ARE NOT RUNNING A HIDEOUT FOR STOLEN 
GOODS!몯 

몮I love hearing Mum shouting at someone else,몯 said 
Fred, with a satisfied smile on his face as he opened 
the door an inch or so to allow Mrs. Weasley 몭s voice to 
permeate the room better. 몮It makes such a nice 
change.몯 

COMPLETELY IRRESPONSIBLE, AS IF WE 
HAVENT GOT ENOUGH TO WORRY ABOUT 
WITHOUT YOU DRAGGING STOLEN CAULDRONS 
INTO THE HOUSE 멪 몯 

| 138Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮The idiots are letting her get into her stride,몯 said 
George, shaking his head. 몮You몭ve got to head her off 
early, otherwise she builds up a head of steam and 
goes on for hours. And she몭s been dying to have a go 
at Mundungus ever since he sneaked off when he was 
supposed to be following you, Harry 멪 and there goes 
Sirius몭s mum again 멪 몯 

Mrs. Weasley몭s voice was lost amid fresh shrieks and 
screams from the portraits in the hall. George made 
to shut the door to drown the noise, but before he 
could do so, a house-elf edged into the room. 

Except for the filthy rag tied like a loincloth around 
its middle, it was completely naked. It looked very old. 
Its skin seemed to be several times too big for it and 
though it was bald like all house-elves, there was a 
quantity of white hair growing out of its large, batlike 
ears. Its eyes were a bloodshot and watery gray, and 
its fleshy nose was large and rather snoutlike. 

The elf took absolutely no notice of Harry and the 
rest. Acting as though it could not see them, it 
shuffled hunchbacked, slowly and doggedly, toward 
the far end of the room, muttering under its breath all 
the while in a hoarse, deep voice like a bullfrog몭s, "... 
Smells like a drain and a criminal to boot, but she몭s 
no better, nasty old blood traitor with her brats 
messing up my Mistress몭s house, oh my poor 
Mistress, if she knew, if she knew the scum they몭ve let 
in her house, what would she say to old Kreacher, oh 
the shame of it, Mudbloods and werewolves and 
traitors and thieves, poor old Kreacher, what can he 
do...몯 

몮Hello, Kreacher,몯 said Fred very loudly, closing the 
door with a snap. 



| 139Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The house-elf froze in his tracks, stopped muttering, 
and then gave a very pronounced and very 
unconvincing start of surprise. 

몮Kreacher did not see Young Master,몯 he said, turning 
around and bowing to Fred. Still facing the carpet, he 
added, perfectly audibly, 몮Nasty little brat of a blood 
traitor it is.몯 

몮Sorry?몯 said George. 몮Didn몭t catch that last bit.몯 

몮Kreacher said nothing,몯 said the elf, with a second 
bow to George, adding in a clear undertone, 몮and 
there몭s its twin, unnatural little beasts they are.몯 

Harry didn몭t know whether to laugh or not. The elf 
straightened up, eyeing them all very malevolently, 
and apparently convinced that they could not hear 
him as he continued to mutter. 

"... and there몭s the Mudblood, standing there bold as 
brass, oh if my Mistress knew, oh how she몭d cry, and 
there몭s a new boy, Kreacher doesn몭t know his name, 
what is he doing here, Kreacher doesn몭t know ...몯 

몮This is Harry, Kreacher,몯 said Hermione tentatively. 
몮Harry Potter.몯 

Kreacher몭s pale eyes widened and he muttered faster 
and more furiously than ever. 

몮The Mudblood is talking to Kreacher as though she 
is my friend, if Kreacher몭s Mistress saw him in such 
company, oh what would she say 멪 몯 

몮Don몭t call her a Mudblood!몯 said Ron and Ginny 
together, very angrily. 



| 140Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮It doesn몭t matter,몯 Hermione whispered, 몮he몭s not in 
his right mind, he doesn몭t know what he몭s 멪 몯 

몮Don몭t kid yourself, Hermione, he knows exactly what 
he몭s saying,몯 said Fred, eyeing Kreacher with great 
dislike. 

Kreacher was still muttering, his eyes on Harry. 

몮Is it true? Is it Harry Potter? Kreacher can see the 
scar, it must be true, that몭s that boy who stopped the 
Dark Lord, Kreacher wonders how he did it 멪 몯 

몮Don몭t we all, Kreacher?몯 said Fred. 

몮What do you want anyway?몯 George asked. 

Kreacher 몭s huge eyes darted onto George. 

몮Kreacher is cleaning,몯 he said evasively. 

몮A likely story,몯 said a voice behind Harry. 

Sirius had come back; he was glowering at the elf 
from the doorway. The noise in the hall had abated; 
perhaps Mrs. Weasley and Mundungus had moved 
their argument down into the kitchen. At the sight of 
Sirius, Kreacher flung himself into a ridiculously low 
bow that flattened his snoutlike nose on the floor. 

몮Stand up straight,몯 said Sirius impatiently. 몮Now, 
what are you up to?몯 

몮Kreacher is cleaning,몯 the elf repeated. 몮Kreacher 
lives to serve the noble house of Black 멪 몯 

몮 멪 and it몭s getting blacker every day, it몭s filthy,몯 said 
Sirius. 



| 141Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Master always liked his little joke,몯 said Kreacher, 
bowing again, and continuing in an undertone, 
몮Master was a nasty ungrateful swine who broke his 
mother몭s heart 멪 몯 

몮My mother didn몭t have a heart, Kreacher,몯 Sirius 
snapped. 몮She kept herself alive out of pure spite.몯 

Kreacher bowed again and said, 몮Whatever Master 
says,몯 then muttered furiously, 몮Master is not fit to 
wipe slime from his mother몭s boots, oh my poor 
Mistress, what would she say if she saw Kreacher 
serving him, how she hated him, what a 
disappointment he was 멪 몯 

몮I asked you what you were up to,몯 said Sirius coldly. 
몮Every time you show up pretending to be cleaning, 
you sneak something off to your room so we can몭t 
throw it out.몯 

몮Kreacher would never move anything from its proper 
place in Master몭s house,몯 said the elf, then muttered 
very fast, 몮Mistress would never forgive Kreacher if 
the tapestry was thrown out, seven centuries it몭s been 
in the family, Kreacher must save it, Kreacher will not 
let Master and the blood traitors and the brats 
destroy it 멪 몯 

몮I thought it might be that,몯 said Sirius, casting a 
disdainful look at the opposite wall. 몮She몭ll have put 
another Permanent Sticking Charm on the back of it, 

I don몭t doubt, but if I can get rid of it I certainly will. 
Now go away, Kreacher.몯 

It seemed that Kreacher did not dare disobey a direct 
order; nevertheless, the look he gave Sirius as he 
shuffled out past him was redolent of deepest loathing 
and he muttered all the way out of the room. 



| 142Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮 멪 comes back from Azkaban ordering Kreacher 
around, oh my poor Mistress, what would she say if 
she saw the house now, scum living in it, her 
treasures thrown out, she swore he was no son of 
hers and he몭s back, they say he몭s a murderer too 멪 몯 

몮Keep muttering and I will be a murderer!몯 said Sirius 
irritably, and he slammed the door shut on the elf. 

몮Sirius, he몭s not right in the head,몯 said Hermione 
pleadingly, 몮I don몭t think he realizes we can hear 
him.몯 

몮He몭s been alone too long,몯 said Sirius, 몮taking mad 
orders from my mother몭s portrait and talking to 
himself, but he was always a foul little 멪 몯 

몮If you just set him free,몯 said Hermione hopefully, 
몮maybe 멪 몯 

몮We can몭t set him free, he knows too much about the 
Order,몯 said Sirius curtly. 몮And anyway, the shock 
would kill him. You suggest to him that he leaves this 
house, see how he takes it.몯 

Sirius walked across the room, where the tapestry 
Kreacher had been trying to protect hung the length 
of the wall. Harry and the others followed. 

The tapestry looked immensely old; it was faded and 
looked as though doxies had gnawed it in places; 
nevertheless, the golden thread with which it was 
embroidered still glinted brightly enough to show 
them a sprawling family tree dating back (as far as 
Harry could tell) to the Middle Ages. Large words at 
the very top of the tapestry read: 

THE NOBLE AND MOST ANCIENT HOUSE OF BLACK 



| 143Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮TOUJOURS PUR몯 



몮You몭re not on here!몯 said Harry, after scanning the 
bottom of the tree. 

몮I used to be there,몯 said Sirius, pointing at a small, 
round, charred hole in the tapestry, rather like a 
cigarette burn. 몮My sweet old mother blasted me off 
after I ran away from home 멪 Kreacher몭s quite fond of 
muttering the story under his breath.몯 

몮You ran away from home?몯 

몮When I was about sixteen,몯 said Sirius. 몮I몭d had 
enough.몯 

몮Where did you go?몯 asked Harry, staring at him. 

몮Your dad몭s place,몯 said Sirius. 몮Your grandparents 
were really good about it; they sort of adopted me as a 
second son. Yeah, I camped out at your dad몭s during 
the school holidays, and then when I was seventeen I 
got a place of my own, my Uncle Alphard had left me 
a decent bit of gold 멪 he몭s been wiped off here too, 
that몭s probably why 멪 anyway, after that I looked 
after myself. I was always welcome at Mr. and Mrs. 
Potter몭s for Sunday lunch, though.몯 

몮But . . . why did you ... ?몯 

몮Leave?몯 Sirius smiled bitterly and ran a hand 
through his long, unkempt hair. 몮Because I hated the 
whole lot of them: my parents, with their pure-blood 
mania, convinced that to be a Black made you 
practically royal . . . my idiot brother, soft enough to 
believe them ... that몭s him.몯 



| 144Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Sirius jabbed a finger at the very bottom of the tree, 
at the name REGULUS BLACK. A date of death (some 
fifteen years previously) followed the date of birth. 

몮He was younger than me,몯 said Sirius, 몮and a much 
better son, as I was constantly reminded.몯 

몮But he died,몯 said Harry. 

몮Yeah,몯 said Sirius. 몮Stupid idiot ... he joined the 
Death Eaters.몯 

몮You몭re kidding!몯 

몮Come on, Harry, haven몭t you seen enough of this 
house to tell what kind of wizards my family were?몯 
said Sirius testily. 

몮Were 멪 were your parents Death Eaters as well?몯 

몮No, no, but believe me, they thought Voldemort had 
the right idea, they were all for the purification of the 
Wizarding race, getting rid of Muggle-borns and 
having purebloods in charge. They weren몭t alone 
either, there were quite a few people, before 
Voldemort showed his true colors, who thought he 
had the right idea about things... They got cold feet 
when they saw what he was prepared to do to get 
power, though. But I bet my parents thought Regulus 
was a right little hero for joining up at first.몯 

몮Was he killed by an Auror?몯 Harry asked tentatively. 

몮Oh no,몯 said Sirius. 몮No, he was murdered by 
Voldemort. Or on Voldemort몭s orders, more likely, I 
doubt Regulus was ever important enough to be killed 
by Voldemort in person. From what I found out after 
he died, he got in so far, then panicked about what he 
was being asked to do and tried to back out. Well, you 
| 145Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




don몭t just hand in your resignation to Voldemort. It몭s 
a lifetime of service or death.몯 

몮Lunch,몯 said Mrs. Weasley몭s voice. 

She was holding her wand high in front of her, 
balancing a huge tray loaded with sandwiches and 
cake on its tip. She was very red in the face and still 
looked angry. The others moved over to her, eager for 
some food, but Harry remained with Sirius, who had 
bent closer to the tapestry. 

몮I haven몭t looked at this for years. There몭s Phineas 
Nigellus ... my great-great-grandfather, see? Least 
popular headmaster Hogwarts ever had . . . and 
Araminta Meliflua . . . cousin of my mother몭s . . . tried to 
force through a Ministry Bill to make Muggle-hunting 
legal . . . and dear Aunt Elladora . . . she started the 
family tradition of beheading house-elves when they 
got too old to carry tea trays ... of course, anytime the 
family produced someone halfway decent they were 
disowned. I see Tonks isn몭t on here. Maybe that몭s why 
Kreacher won몭t take orders from her 멪 he몭s supposed 
to do whatever anyone in the family asks him...몯 

몮You and Tonks are related?몯 Harry asked, surprised. 

몮Oh yeah, her mother, Andromeda, was my favorite 
cousin,몯 said Sirius, examining the tapestry carefully. 
몮No, Andromeda몭s not on here either, look 멪 몯 

He pointed to another small round burn mark 
between two names, Bellatrix and Narcissa. 

몮Andromeda몭s sisters are still here because they made 
lovely, respectable pure-blood marriages, but 
Andromeda married a Muggle-born, Ted Tonks, so 멪 몯 



| 146Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Sirius mimed blasting the tapestry with a wand and 
laughed sourly. Harry, however, did not laugh; he was 
too busy staring at the names to the right of 
Andromeda몭s burn mark. A double line of gold 
embroidery linked Narcissa Black with Lucius Malfoy, 
and a single vertical gold line from their names led to 
the name Draco. 

몮You몭re related to the Malfoys!몯 

몮The pure-blood families are all interrelated,몯 said 
Sirius. 몮If you몭re only going to let your sons and 
daughters marry purebloods your choice is very 
limited, there are hardly any of us left. Molly and I are 
cousins by marriage and Arthur몭s something like my 
second cousin once removed. But there몭s no point 
looking for them on here 멪 if ever a family was a 
bunch of blood traitors it몭s the Weasleys.몯 

But Harry was now looking at the name to the left of 
Andromeda몭s burn: Bellatrix Black, which was 
connected by a double line to Rodolphus Lestrange. 

몮Lestrange ...몯 Harry said aloud. The name had 
stirred something in his memory; he knew it from 
somewhere, but for a moment he couldn몭t think 
where, though it gave him an odd, creeping sensation 
in the pit of his stomach. 

몮They몭re in Azkaban,몯 said Sirius shortly. 

Harry looked at him curiously. 

몮Bellatrix and her husband Rodolphus came in with 
Barty Crouch, Junior,몯 said Sirius in the same 
brusque voice. 몮Rodolphus 몭s brother, Rabastan, was 
with them too.몯 



| 147Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




And Harry remembered: He had seen Bellatrix 
Lestrange inside Dumbledore몭s Pensieve, the strange 
device in which thoughts and memories could be 
stored: a tall dark woman with heavy-lidded eyes, 
who had stood at her trial and proclaimed her 
continuing allegiance to Lord Voldemort, her pride 
that she had tried to find him after his downfall and 
her conviction that she would one day be rewarded 
for her loyalty. 

몮You never said she was your 멪 몯 

몮Does it matter if she몭s my cousin?몯 snapped Sirius. 
몮As far as I몭m concerned, they몭re not my family. She몭s 
certainly not my family. I haven몭t seen her since I was 
your age, unless you count a glimpse of her coming in 
to Azkaban. D몭you think I몭m proud of having relatives 
like her?몯 

몮Sorry,몯 said Harry quickly, 몮I didn몭t mean 멪 I was 
just surprised, that몭s all 멪 몯 

몮It doesn몭t matter, don몭t apologize,몯 Sirius mumbled at 
once. He turned away from the tapestry, his hands 
deep in his pockets. 몮I don몭t like being back here,몯 he 
said, staring across the drawing room. 몮I never 
thought I몭d be stuck in this house again.몯 

Harry understood completely. He knew how he would 
feel if forced, when he was grown up and thought he 
was free of the place forever, to return and live at 
number four, Privet Drive. 

몮It몭s ideal for headquarters, of course,몯 Sirius said. 

몮My father put every security measure known to 
Wizard-kind on it when he lived here. It몭s Unplottable, 
so Muggles could never come and call 멪 as if they몭d 
have wanted to 멪 and now Dumbledore몭s added his 
protection, you몭d be hard put to find a safer house 
| 148Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




anywhere. Dumbledore몭s Secret-Keeper for the Order, 
you know 멪 nobody can find headquarters unless he 
tells them personally where it is 멪 that note Moody 
showed you last night, that was from Dumbledore...몯 
Sirius gave a short, barklike laugh. 몮If my parents 
could see the use it was being put to now ... well, my 
mother몭s portrait should give you some idea...몯 

He scowled for a moment, then sighed. 

몮I wouldn몭t mind if I could just get out occasionally 
and do something useful. I몭ve asked Dumbledore 
whether I can escort you to your hearing 멪 as 
Snuffles, obviously 멪 so I can give you a bit of moral 
support, what d몭you think?몯 

Harry felt as though his stomach had sunk through 
the dusty carpet. He had not thought about the 
hearing once since dinner the previous evening; in the 
excitement of being back with the people he liked 
best, of hearing everything that was going on, it had 
completely flown his mind. At Sirius몭s words, 
however, the crushing sense of dread returned to 
him. He stared at Hermione and the Weasleys, all 
tucking into their sandwiches, and thought how he 
would feel if they went back to Hogwarts without him. 

몮Don몭t worry,몯 Sirius said. Harry looked up and 
realized that Sirius had been watching him. 몮I몭m sure 
they몭re going to clear you, there몭s definitely something 
in the International Statute of Secrecy about being 
allowed to use magic to save your own life.몯 

몮But if they do expel me,몯 said Harry, quietly, 몮can I 
come back here and live with you?몯 

Sirius smiled sadly. 

몮We몭ll see.몯 

| 149Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I몭d feel a lot better about the hearing if I knew I didn몭t 
have to go back to the Dursleys,몯 Harry pressed him. 



몮They must be bad if you prefer this place,몯 said 
Sirius gloomily. 

몮Hurry up, you two, or there won몭t be any food left,몯 
Mrs. Weasley called. 

Sirius heaved another great sigh, cast a dark look at 
the tapestry, and he and Harry went to join the 
others. 

Harry tried his best not to think about the hearing 
while they emptied the glass cabinets that afternoon. 
Fortunately for him, it was a job that required a lot of 
concentration, as many of the objects in there seemed 
very reluctant to leave their dusty shelves. Sirius 
sustained a bad bite from a silver snuffbox; within 
seconds, his bitten hand had developed an 
unpleasant crusty covering like a tough brown glove. 

몮It몭s okay,몯 he said, examining the hand with interest 
before tapping it lightly with his wand and restoring 
its skin to normal, 몮must be Wartcap powder in 
there.몯 

He threw the box aside into the sack where they were 
depositing the debris from the cabinets; Harry saw 
George wrap his own hand carefully in a cloth 
moments later and sneak the box into his already 
doxy-filled pocket. 

They found an unpleasant-looking silver instrument, 
something like a many-legged pair of tweezers, which 
scuttled up Harry몭s arm like a spider when he picked 
it up, and attempted to puncture his skin; Sirius 
seized it and smashed it with a heavy book entitled 
Nature몭s Nobility: A Wizarding Genealogy. There was a 
| 150Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




musical box that emitted a faintly sinister, tinkling 
tune when wound, and they all found themselves 
becoming curiously weak and sleepy until Ginny had 
the sense to slam the lid shut; also a heavy locket 
that none of them could open, a number of ancient 
seals and, in a dusty box, an Order of Merlin, First 
Class, that had been awarded to Sirius몭s grandfather 
for 몮Services to the Ministry.몯 

몮It means he gave them a load of gold,몯 said Sirius 
contemptuously, throwing the medal into the rubbish 
sack. 

Several times, Kreacher sidled into the room and 
attempted to smuggle things away under his 
loincloth, muttering horrible curses every time they 
caught him at it. When Sirius wrested a large golden 
ring bearing the Black crest from his grip Kreacher 
actually burst into furious tears and left the room 
sobbing under his breath and calling Sirius names 
Harry had never heard before. 

몮It was my father몭s,몯 said Sirius, throwing the ring 
into the sack. 몮Kreacher wasn몭t quite as devoted to 
him as to my mother, but I still caught him snogging 
a pair of my father몭s old trousers last week.몯 

Mrs. Weasley kept them all working very hard over 
the next few days. The drawing room took three days 
to decontaminate; finally the only undesirable things 
left in it were the tapestry of the Black family tree, 
which resisted all their attempts to remove it from the 
wall, and the rattling writing desk; Moody had not 
dropped by headquarters yet, so they could not be 
sure what was inside it. 

They moved from the drawing room to a dining room 
on the ground floor where they found spiders large as 
saucers lurking in the dresser (Ron left the room 

| 151Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




hurriedly to make a cup of tea and did not return for 
an hour and a half) . The china, which bore the Black 
crest and motto, was all thrown unceremoniously into 
a sack by Sirius, and the same fate met a set of old 
photographs in tarnished silver frames, all of whose 
occupants squealed shrilly as the glass covering them 
smashed. 

Snape might refer to their work as 몮cleaning,몯 but in 
Harry몭s opinion they were really waging war on the 
house, which was putting up a very good fight, aided 
and abetted by Kreacher. The house-elf kept 
appearing wherever they were congregated, his 
muttering becoming more and more offensive as he 
attempted to remove anything he could from the 
rubbish sacks. Sirius went as far as to threaten him 
with clothes, but Kreacher fixed him with a watery 
stare and said, 몮Master must do as Master wishes,몯 
before turning away and muttering very loudly, 몮but 
Master will not turn Kreacher away, no, because 
Kreacher knows what they are up to, oh yes, he is 
plotting against the Dark Lord, yes, with these 
Mudbloods and traitors and scum...몯 

At which Sirius, ignoring Hermione몭s protests, seized 
Kreacher by the back of his loincloth and threw him 
bodily from the room. 

The doorbell rang several times a day, which was the 
cue for Sirius몭s mother to start shrieking again, and 
for Harry and the others to attempt to eavesdrop on 
the visitor, though they gleaned very little from the 
brief glimpses and snatches of conversation they were 
able to sneak before Mrs. Weasley recalled them to 
their tasks. Snape flitted in and out of the house 
several times more, though to Harry몭s relief they never 
came face-to-face; he also caught sight of his 
Transfiguration teacher, Professor McGonagall, 



| 152Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




looking very odd in a Muggle dress and coat, though 
she also seemed too busy to linger. 

Sometimes, however, the visitors stayed to help; 

Tonks joined them for a memorable afternoon in 
which they found a murderous old ghoul lurking in 
an upstairs toilet, and Lupin, who was staying in the 
house with Sirius but who left it for long periods to do 
mysterious work for the Order, helped them repair a 
grandfather clock that had developed the unpleasant 
habit of shooting heavy bolts at passersby. 
Mundungus redeemed himself slightly in Mrs. 
Weasley몭s eyes by rescuing Ron from an ancient set of 
purple robes that had tried to strangle him when he 
removed them from their wardrobe. 

Despite the fact that he was still sleeping badly, still 
having dreams about corridors and locked doors that 
made his scar prickle, Harry was managing to have 
fun for the first time all summer. As long as he was 
busy he was happy; when the action abated, however, 
whenever he dropped his guard, or lay exhausted in 
bed watching blurred shadows move across the 
ceiling, the thought of the looming Ministry hearing 
returned to him. Fear jabbed at his insides like 
needles as he wondered what was going to happen to 
him if he was expelled. The idea was so terrible that 
he did not dare voice it aloud, not even to Ron and 
Hermione, who, though he often saw them whispering 
together and casting anxious looks in his direction, 
followed his lead in not mentioning it. Sometimes he 
could not prevent his imagination showing him a 
faceless Ministry official who was snapping his wand 
in two and ordering him back to the Dursleys몭 ... but 
he would not go. He was determined on that. He 
would come back here to Grimmauld Place and live 
with Sirius. 



| 153Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He felt as though a brick had dropped into his 
stomach when Mrs. Weasley turned to him during 
dinner on Wednesday evening and said quietly, 몮I몭ve 
ironed your best clothes for tomorrow morning, 

Harry, and I want you to wash your hair tonight too. 

A good first impression can work wonders.몯 

Ron, Hermione, Fred, George, and Ginny all stopped 
talking and looked over at him. Harry nodded and 
tried to keep eating his chops, but his mouth had 
become so dry he could not chew. 

몮How am I getting there?몯 he asked Mrs. Weasley, 
trying to sound unconcerned. 

몮Arthur몭s taking you to work with him,몯 said Mrs. 
Weasley gently. 

Mr. Weasley smiled encouragingly at Harry across the 
table. 

몮You can wait in my office until it몭s time for the 
hearing,몯 he said. 

Harry looked over at Sirius, but before he could ask 
the question, Mrs. Weasley had answered it. 

몮Professor Dumbledore doesn몭t think it몭s a good idea 
for Sirius to go with you, and I must say I 멪 몯 

몮 멪 think he몭s quite right,몯 said Sirius through 
clenched teeth. 

Mrs. Weasley pursed her lips. 

몮When did Dumbledore tell you that?몯 Harry said, 
staring at Sirius. 



| 154Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮He came last night, when you were in bed,몯 said Mr. 
Weasley. 

Sirius stabbed moodily at a potato with his fork. 
Harry dropped his own eyes to his plate. The thought 
that Dumbledore had been in the house on the eve of 
his hearing and not asked to see him made him feel, 
if that were possible, even worse. 



| 155Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




7 




THE MINISTRY OF MAGIC 

Harry awoke at half-past five the next morning as 
abruptly and completely as if somebody had yelled in 
his ear. For a few moments he lay immobile as the 
prospect of the hearing filled every tiny particle of his 
brain, then, unable to bear it, he leapt out of bed and 
put on his glasses. Mrs. Weasley had laid out his 
freshly laundered jeans and T-shirt at the foot of his 
bed. Harry scrambled into them. The blank picture on 
the wall sniggered again. 

Ron was lying sprawled on his back with his mouth 
wide open, fast asleep. He did not stir as Harry 
crossed the room, stepped out onto the landing, and 
closed the door softly behind him. Trying not to think 
of the next time he would see Ron, when they might 
no longer be fellow students at Hogwarts, Harry 
walked quietly down the stairs, past the heads of 
Kreacher몭s ancestors, and into the kitchen. 

He had expected it to be empty, but it was not. When 
he reached the door he heard the soft rumble of 
voices on the other side and when he pushed it open 

| 156Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



he saw Mr. and Mrs. Weasley, Sirius, Lupin, and 
Tonks sitting there almost as though they were 
waiting for him. All were fully dressed except Mrs. 
Weasley, who was wearing a quilted, purple dressing 
gown. She leapt to her feet the moment he entered. 

몮Breakfast,몯 she said as she pulled out her wand and 
hurried over to the fire. 

몮M-m-morning, Harry,몯 yawned Tonks. Her hair was 
blonde and curly this morning. 몮Sleep all right?몯 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry. 

몮I몭ve b-b-been up all night,몯 she said, with another 
shuddering yawn. 몮Come and sit down...몯 

She drew out a chair, knocking over the one beside it 
in the process. 

몮What do you want, Harry?몯 Mrs. Weasley called. 
몮Porridge? Muffins? Kippers? Bacon and eggs? 

Toast?몯 

몮Just 멪 just toast, thanks,몯 said Harry. 

Lupin glanced at Harry, then said to Tonks, 몮What 
were you saying about Scrimgeour?몯 

몮Oh ... yeah ... well, we need to be a bit more careful, 
he몭s been asking Kingsley and me funny questions...몯 

Harry felt vaguely grateful that he was not required to 
join in the conversation. His insides were squirming. 
Mrs. Weasley placed a couple of pieces of toast and 
marmalade in front of him; he tried to eat, but it was 
like chewing carpet. Mrs. Weasley sat down on his 
other side and started fussing with his T-shirt, 



| 157Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




tucking in the label and smoothing out creases across 
the shoulders. He wished she wouldn몭t. 

"... and I몭ll have to tell Dumbledore I can몭t do night 
duty tomorrow, I몭m just t-t-too tired,몯 Tonks finished, 
yawning hugely again. 

몮I몭ll cover for you,몯 said Mr. Weasley. 몮I몭m okay, I몭ve 
got a report to finish anyway...몯 

Mr. Weasley was not wearing wizard몭s robes but a 
pair of pinstriped trousers and an old bomber jacket. 
He turned from Tonks to Harry. 

몮How are you feeling?몯 

Harry shrugged. 

몮It몭ll all be over soon,몯 Mr. Weasley said bracingly. 몮In 
a few hours몭 time you몭ll be cleared.몯 

Harry said nothing. 

몮The hearing몭s on my floor, in Amelia Bones 몭s office. 
She몭s Head of the Department of Magical Law 
Enforcement and she몭s the one who몭ll be questioning 
you.몯 

몮Amelia Bones is okay, Harry,몯 said Tonks earnestly. 
몮She몭s fair, she몭ll hear you out.몯 

Harry nodded, still unable to think of anything to say. 

몮Don몭t lose your temper,몯 said Sirius abruptly. 몮Be 
polite and stick to the facts.몯 

Harry nodded again. 



| 158Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮The law몭s on your side,몯 said Lupin quietly. 몮Even 
underage wizards are allowed to use magic in life- 
threatening situations.몯 

Something very cold trickled down the back of Harry몭s 
neck; for a moment he thought someone was putting 
a Disillusionment Charm on him again, then he 
realized that Mrs. Weasley was attacking his hair with 
a wet comb. She pressed hard on the top of his head. 

몮Doesn몭t it ever lie flat?몯 she said desperately. 

Harry shook his head. 

Mr. Weasley checked his watch and looked up at 
Harry. 

몮I think we몭ll go now,몯 he said. 몮We몭re a bit early, but I 
think you몭ll be better off there than hanging around 
here.몯 

몮Okay,몯 said Harry automatically, dropping his toast 
and getting to his feet. 

몮You몭ll be all right, Harry,몯 said Tonks, patting him on 
the arm. 

몮Good luck,몯 said Lupin. 몮I몭m sure it will be fine.몯 

몮And if it몭s not,몯 said Sirius grimly, 몮I몭ll see to Amelia 
Bones for you...몯 

Harry smiled weakly. Mrs. Weasley hugged him. 

몮We몭ve all got our fingers crossed,몯 she said. 

몮Right,몯 said Harry. 몮Well ... see you later then.몯 



| 159Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He followed Mr. Weasley upstairs and along the hall. 
He could hear Sirius몭s mother grunting in her sleep 
behind her curtains. Mr. Weasley unbolted the door 
and they stepped out into the cold, gray dawn. 

몮You don몭t normally walk to work, do you?몯 Harry 
asked him, as they set off briskly around the square. 

몮No, I usually Apparate,몯 said Mr. Weasley, 몮but 
obviously you can몭t, and I think it몭s best we arrive in a 
thoroughly non-magical fashion . . . makes a better 
impression, given what you몭re being disciplined for...몯 

Mr. Weasley kept his hand inside his jacket as they 
walked. Harry knew it was clenched around his wand. 
The run-down streets were almost deserted, but when 
they arrived at the miserable little Underground 
station they found it already full of early morning 
commuters. As ever when he found himself in close 
proximity to Muggles going about their daily business, 
Mr. Weasley was hard put to contain his enthusiasm. 

몮Simply fabulous,몯 he whispered, indicating the 
automatic ticket machines. 몮Wonderfully ingenious.몯 

몮They몭re out of order,몯 said Harry, pointing at the 
sign. 

몮Yes, but even so ...몯 said Mr. Weasley, beaming 
fondly at them. 

They bought their tickets instead from a sleepy- 
looking guard (Harry handled the transaction, as Mr. 
Weasley was not very good with Muggle money) and 
five minutes later they were boarding an Underground 
train that rattled them off toward the center of 
London. Mr. Weasley kept anxiously checking and 
rechecking the Underground map above the windows. 



| 160Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Four stops, Harry ... three stops left now ... two 
stops to go, Harry ...몯 

They got off at a station in the very heart of London, 
swept from the train in a tide of besuited men and 
women carrying briefcases. Up the escalator they 
went, through the ticket barrier (Mr. Weasley 
delighted with the way the stile swallowed his ticket), 
and emerged onto a broad street lined with imposing- 
looking buildings, already full of traffic. 

몮Where are we?몯 said Mr. Weasley blankly, and for 
one heart-stopping moment Harry thought they had 
gotten off at the wrong station despite Mr. Weasley몭s 
continual references to the map; but a second later he 
said, 몮Ah yes ... this way, Harry,몯 and led him down a 
side road. 

몮Sorry,몯 he said, 몮but I never come by train and it all 
looks rather different from a Muggle perspective. As a 
matter of fact I몭ve never even used the visitor몭s 
entrance before.몯 

The farther they walked, the smaller and less 
imposing the buildings became, until finally they 
reached a street that contained several rather 
shabby-looking offices, a pub, and an overflowing 
dumpster. Harry had expected a rather more 
impressive location for the Ministry of Magic. 

몮Here we are,몯 said Mr. Weasley brightly, pointing at 
an old red telephone box, which was missing several 
panes of glass and stood before a heavily graffittied 
wall. 몮After you, Harry.몯 

He opened the telephone box door. 

Harry stepped inside, wondering what on earth this 
was about. Mr. Weasley folded himself in beside Harry 

| 161Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




and closed the door. It was a tight fit; Harry was 
jammed against the telephone apparatus, which was 
hanging crookedly from the wall as though a vandal 
had tried to rip it off. Mr. Weasley reached past Harry 
for the receiver. 

몮Mr. Weasley, I think this might be out of order too,몯 
Harry said. 

몮No, no, I몭m sure it몭s fine,몯 said Mr. Weasley, holding 
the receiver above his head and peering at the dial. 
몮Let몭s see ... six ...몯 he dialed the number, 몮two ... four 
... and another four ... and another two ...몯 

As the dial whirred smoothly back into place, a cool 
female voice sounded inside the telephone box, not 
from the receiver in Mr. Weasley몭s hand, but as loudly 
and plainly as though an invisible woman were 
standing right beside them. 

몮Welcome to the Ministry of Magic. Please state your 
name and business.몯 

몮Er ...몯 said Mr. Weasley, clearly uncertain whether he 
should talk into the receiver or not; he compromised 
by holding the mouthpiece to his ear, 몮Arthur 
Weasley, Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office, here to 
escort Harry Potter, who has been asked to attend a 
disciplinary hearing...몯 

몮Thank you,몯 said the cool female voice. 몮Visitor, 
please take the badge and attach it to the front of 
your robes.몯 

There was a click and a rattle, and Harry saw 
something slide out of the metal chute where 
returned coins usually appeared. He picked it up: It 
was a square silver badge with Harry Potter, 



| 162Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Disciplinary Hearing on it. He pinned it to the front of 
his T-shirt as the female voice spoke again. 

몮Visitor to the Ministry, you are required to submit to 
a search and present your wand for registration at the 
security desk, which is located at the far end of the 
Atrium.몯 

The floor of the telephone box shuddered. They were 
sinking slowly into the ground. Harry watched 
apprehensively as the pavement rose up past the 
glass windows of the telephone box until darkness 
closed over their heads. Then he could see nothing at 
all; he could only hear a dull grinding noise as the 
telephone box made its way down through the earth. 
After about a minute, though it felt much longer to 
Harry, a chink of golden light illuminated his feet 
and, widening, rose up his body, until it hit him in 
the face and he had to blink to stop his eyes from 
watering. 

몮The Ministry of Magic wishes you a pleasant day,몯 
said the woman몭s voice. 

The door of the telephone box sprang open and Mr. 
Weasley stepped out of it, followed by Harry, whose 
mouth had fallen open. 

They were standing at one end of a very long and 
splendid hall with a highly polished, dark wood floor. 
The peacock-blue ceiling was inlaid with gleaming 
golden symbols that were continually moving and 
changing like some enormous heavenly notice board. 
The walls on each side were paneled in shiny dark 
wood and had many gilded fireplaces set into them. 
Every few seconds a witch or wizard would emerge 
from one of the left-hand fireplaces with a soft 
whoosh ; on the right-hand side, short queues of 



| 163Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




wizards were forming before each fireplace, waiting to 
depart. 

Halfway down the hall was a fountain. A group of 
golden statues, larger than life-size, stood in the 
middle of a circular pool. Tallest of them all was a 
noble-looking wizard with his wand pointing straight 
up in the air. Grouped around him were a beautiful 
witch, a centaur, a goblin, and a house-elf. The last 
three were all looking adoringly up at the witch and 
wizard. Glittering jets of water were flying from the 
ends of the two wands, the point of the centaur몭s 
arrow, the tip of the goblin몭s hat, and each of the 
house-elf몭s ears, so that the tinkling hiss of falling 
water was added to the pops and cracks of 
Apparators and the clatter of footsteps as hundreds of 
witches and wizards, most of whom were wearing 
glum, early-morning looks, strode toward a set of 
golden gates at the far end of the hall. 

몮This way,몯 said Mr. Weasley. 

They joined the throng, wending their way between 
the Ministry workers, some of whom were carrying 
tottering piles of parchment, others battered 
briefcases, still others reading the Daily Prophet as 
they walked. As they passed the fountain Harry saw 
silver Sickles and bronze Knuts glinting up at him 
from the bottom of the pool. A small, smudged sign 
beside it read: 

All proceeds from the Fountain of Magical Brethren will 
be given to 

St. Mungo몭s Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries 

If I몭m not expelled from Hogwarts, I몭ll put in ten 
Galleons, Harry found himself thinking desperately. 



| 164Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Over here, Harry,몯 said Mr. Weasley, and they 
stepped out of the stream of Ministry employees 
heading for the golden gates, toward a desk on the 
left, over which hung a sign saying SECURITY. A 
badly shaven wizard in peacock-blue robes looked up 
as they approached and put down his Daily Prophet. 

몮I몭m escorting a visitor,몯 said Mr. Weasley, gesturing 
toward Harry. 

몮Step over here,몯 said the wizard in a bored voice. 

Harry walked closer to him and the wizard held up a 
long golden rod, thin and flexible as a car aerial, and 
passed it up and down Harry몭s front and back. 

몮Wand,몯 grunted the security wizard at Harry, putting 
down the golden instrument and holding out his 
hand. 

Harry produced his wand. The wizard dropped it onto 
a strange brass instrument, which looked something 
like a set of scales with only one dish. It began to 
vibrate. A narrow strip of parchment came speeding 
out of a slit in the base. The wizard tore this off and 
read the writing upon it. 

몮Eleven inches, phoenix-feather core, been in use four 
years. That correct?몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Harry nervously. 

몮I keep this,몯 said the wizard, impaling the slip of 
parchment on a small brass spike. 몮You get this 
back,몯 he added, thrusting the wand at Harry. 

몮Thank you.몯 

몮Hang on...몯 said the wizard slowly. 

| 165Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




His eyes had darted from the silver visitor몭s badge on 
Harry몭s chest to his forehead. 

몮Thank you, Eric,몯 said Mr. Weasley firmly, and 
grasping Harry by the shoulder, he steered him away 
from the desk and back into the stream of wizards 
and witches walking through the golden gates. 

Jostled slightly by the crowd, Harry followed Mr. 
Weasley through the gates into the smaller hall 
beyond, where at least twenty lifts stood behind 
wrought golden grilles. Harry and Mr. Weasley joined 
the crowd around one of them. A big, bearded wizard 
holding a large cardboard box stood nearby. The box 
was emitting rasping noises. 

몮All right, Arthur?몯 said the wizard, nodding at Mr. 
Weasley. 

몮What몭ve you got there, Bob?몯 asked Mr. Weasley, 
looking at the box. 

몮We몭re not sure,몯 said the wizard seriously. 몮We 
thought it was a bog-standard chicken until it started 
breathing fire. Looks like a serious breach of the Ban 
on Experimental Breeding to me.몯 

With a great jangling and clattering a lift descended in 
front of them; the golden grille slid back and Harry 
and Mr. Weasley moved inside it with the rest of the 
crowd. Harry found himself jammed against the back 
wall of the lift. Several witches and wizards were 
looking at him curiously; he stared at his feet to avoid 
catching anyone몭s eye, flattening his fringe as he did 
so. The grilles slid shut with a crash and the lift 
ascended slowly, chains rattling all the while, while 
the same cool female voice Harry had heard in the 
telephone box rang out again. 



| 166Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Level seven, Department of Magical Games and 
Sports, incorporating the British and Irish Quidditch 
League Headquarters, Official Gobstones Club, and 
Ludicrous Patents Office.몯 

The lift doors opened; Harry glimpsed an untidy- 
looking corridor, with various posters of Quidditch 
teams tacked lopsidedly on the walls; one of the 
wizards in the lift, who was carrying an armful of 
broomsticks, extricated himself with difficulty and 
disappeared down the corridor. The doors closed, the 
lift juddered upward again, and the woman몭s voice 
said, 몮Level six, Department of Magical Transport, 
incorporating the Floo Network Authority, Broom 
Regulatory Control, Portkey Office, and Apparation 
Test Center.몯 

Once again the lift doors opened and four or five 
witches and wizards got out; at the same time, several 
paper airplanes swooped into the lift. Harry stared up 
at them as they flapped idly around above his head; 
they were a pale violet color and he could see 
MINISTRY OF MAGIC stamped along the edges of 
their wings. 

몮Just Interdepartmental memos,몯 Mr. Weasley 
muttered to him. 몮We used to use owls, but the mess 
was unbelievable ... droppings all over the desks ...몯 

As they clattered upward again, the memos flapped 
around the swaying lamp in the lift몭s ceiling. 

몮Level five, Department of International Magical 
Cooperation, incorporating the International Magical 
Trading Standards Body, the International Magical 
Office of Law, and the International Confederation of 
Wizards, British Seats.몯 



| 167Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




When the doors opened, two of the memos zoomed 
out with a few more witches and wizards, but several 
more memos zoomed in, so that the light from the 
lamp in the ceiling flickered and flashed as they 
darted around it. 

몮Level four, Department for the Regulation and 
Control of Magical Creatures, incorporating Beast, 
Being, and Spirit Divisions, Goblin Liaison Office, and 
Pest Advisory Bureau.몯 

몮 몭S몭cuse,몯 said the wizard carrying the fire-breathing 
chicken and he left the lift pursued by a little flock of 
memos. The doors clanged shut yet again. 

몮Level three, Department of Magical Accidents and 
Catastrophes, including the Accidental Magic 
Reversal Squad, Obliviator Headquarters, and 
Muggle-Worthy Excuse Committee.몯 

Everybody left the lift on this floor except Mr. 

Weasley, Harry, and a witch who was reading an 
extremely long piece of parchment that was trailing 
on the ground. The remaining memos continued to 
soar around the lamp as the lift juddered upward 
again, and then the doors opened and the voice said, 
몮Level two, Department of Magical Law Enforcement, 
including the Improper Use of Magic Office, Auror 
Headquarters, and Wizengamot Administration 
Services.몯 

몮This is us, Harry,몯 said Mr. Weasley, and they 
followed the witch out of the lift into a corridor lined 
with doors. 몮My office is on the other side of the floor.몯 

몮Mr. Weasley,몯 said Harry, as they passed a window 
through which sunlight was streaming, 몮aren몭t we 
underground?몯 



| 168Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Yes, we are,몯 said Mr. Weasley, 몮those are enchanted 
windows; Magical Maintenance decide what weather 
we몭re getting every day. We had two months of 
hurricanes last time they were angling for a pay 
raise... Just round here, Harry.몯 

They turned a corner, walked through a pair of heavy 
oak doors, and emerged in a cluttered, open area 
divided into cubicles, which were buzzing with talk 
and laughter. Memos were zooming in and out of 
cubicles like miniature rockets. A lopsided sign on the 
nearest cubicle read AUROR HEADQUARTERS. 

Harry looked surreptitiously through the doorways as 
they passed. The Aurors had covered their cubicle 
walls with everything from pictures of wanted wizards 
and photographs of their families, to posters of their 
favorite Quidditch teams and articles from the Daily 
Prophet A scarlet-robed man with a ponytail longer 
than Bill몭s was sitting with his boots up on his desk, 
dictating a report to his quill. A little farther along, a 
witch with a patch over her eye was talking over the 
top of her cubicle wall to Kingsley Shacklebolt. 

몮Morning, Weasley,몯 said Kingsley carelessly, as they 
drew nearer. 몮I몭ve been wanting a word with you, have 
you got a second?몯 

몮Yes, if it really is a second,몯 said Mr. Weasley, 몮I몭m in 
rather a hurry.몯 

They were talking to each other as though they hardly 
knew each other, and when Harry opened his mouth 
to say hello to Kingsley, Mr. Weasley stood on his 
foot. They followed Kingsley along the row and into 
the very last cubicle. 

Harry received a slight shock; Sirius몭s face was 
blinking down at him from every direction. Newspaper 

| 169Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




cuttings and old photographs 멪 even the one of 
Sirius being best man at the Potters몭 wedding 멪 
papered the walls. The only Sirius-free space was a 
map of the world in which little red pins were glowing 
like jewels. 

몮Here,몯 said Kingsley brusquely to Mr. Weasley, 
shoving a sheaf of parchment into his hand, 몮I need 
as much information as possible on flying Muggle 
vehicles sighted in the last twelve months. We몭ve 
received information that Black might still be using 
his old motorcycle.몯 

Kingsley tipped Harry an enormous wink and added, 
in a whisper, 몮Give him the magazine, he might find it 
interesting.몯 Then he said in normal tones, 몮And don몭t 
take too long, Weasley, the delay on that firelegs 
report held our investigation up for a month.몯 

몮If you had read my report you would know that the 
term is 몬firearms,몭 몯 said Mr. Weasley coolly. 몮And I몭m 
afraid you몭ll have to wait for information on 
motorcycles, we몭re extremely busy at the moment.몯 He 
dropped his voice and said, 몮If you can get away 
before seven, Molly몭s making meatballs.몯 

He beckoned to Harry and led him out of Kingsley몭s 
cubicle, through a second set of oak doors, into 
another passage, turned left, marched along another 
corridor, turned right into a dimly lit and distinctly 
shabby corridor, and finally reached a dead end, 
where a door on the left stood ajar, revealing a broom 
cupboard, and a door on the right bore a tarnished 
brass plaque reading MISUSE OF MUGGLE 
ARTIFACTS. 

Mr. Weasley몭s dingy office seemed to be slightly 
smaller than the broom cupboard. Two desks had 
been crammed inside it and there was barely room to 

| 170Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




move around them because of all the overflowing 
filing cabinets lining the walls, on top of which were 
tottering piles of files. The little wall space available 
bore witness to Mr. Weasley몭s obsessions; there were 
several posters of cars, including one of a dismantled 
engine, two illustrations of postboxes he seemed to 
have cut out of Muggle children몭s books, and a 
diagram showing how to wire a plug. 

Sitting on top of Mr. Weasley몭s overflowing in-tray was 
an old toaster that was hiccuping in a disconsolate 
way and a pair of empty leather gloves that were 
twiddling their thumbs. A photograph of the Weasley 
family stood beside the in-tray. Harry noticed that 
Percy appeared to have walked out of it. 

몮We haven몭t got a window,몯 said Mr. Weasley 
apologetically, taking off his bomber jacket and 
placing it on the back of his chair. 몮We몭ve asked, but 
they don몭t seem to think we need one. Have a seat, 
Harry, doesn몭t look as if Perkins is in yet.몯 

Harry squeezed himself into the chair behind 
Perkins몭s desk while Mr. Weasley rifled through the 
sheaf of parchment Kingsley Shacklebolt had given 
him. 

몮Ah,몯 he said, grinning, as he extracted a copy of a 
magazine entitled The Quibbler from its midst, 몮yes 
...몯 He flicked through it. 몮Yes, he몭s right, I몭m sure 
Sirius will find that very amusing 멪 oh dear, what몭s 
this now?몯 

A memo had just zoomed in through the open door 
and fluttered to rest on top of the hiccuping toaster. 
Mr. Weasley unfolded it and read aloud, 몮 Third 
regurgitating public toilet reported in Bethnal Green, 
kindly investigate immediately. 몭 This is getting 
ridiculous...몯 

| 171Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮A regurgitating toilet?몯 



몮Anti-Muggle pranksters,몯 said Mr. Weasley, frowning. 
몮We had two last week, one in Wimbledon, one in 
Elephant and Castle. Muggles are pulling the flush 
and instead of everything disappearing 멪 well, you 
can imagine. The poor things keep calling in those 멪 
those pumbles, I think they몭re called 멪 you know, the 
ones who mend pipes and things 멪 몯 

몮Plumbers?몯 

몮 멪 exactly, yes, but of course they몭re flummoxed. I 
only hope we can catch whoever몭s doing it.몯 

몮Will it be Aurors who catch them?몯 

몮Oh no, this is too trivial for Aurors, it몭ll be the 
ordinary Magical Law Enforcement Patrol 멪 ah, 

Harry, this is Perkins.몯 

A stooped, timid-looking old wizard with fluffy white 
hair had just entered the room, panting. 

몮Oh Arthur!몯 he said desperately, without looking at 
Harry. 몮Thank goodness, I didn몭t know what to do for 
the best, whether to wait here for you or not, I몭ve just 
sent an owl to your home but you몭ve obviously missed 
it 멪 an urgent message came ten minutes ago 멪 몯 

몮I know about the regurgitating toilet,몯 said Mr. 
Weasley. 

몮No, no, it몭s not the toilet, it몭s the Potter boy몭s hearing 
멪 they몭ve changed the time and venue 멪 it starts at 
eight o몭clock now and it몭s down in old Courtroom Ten 



몮Down in old 멪 but they told me 멪 Merlin몭s beard 멪 몯 

| 172Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Mr. Weasley looked at his watch, let out a yelp, and 
leapt from his chair. 

몮Quick, Harry, we should have been there five 
minutes ago!몯 

Perkins flattened himself against the filing cabinets as 
Mr. Weasley left the office at a run, Harry on his 
heels. 

몮Why have they changed the time?몯 Harry said 
breathlessly as they hurtled past the Auror cubicles; 
people poked out their heads and stared as they 
streaked past. Harry felt as though he had left all his 
insides back at Perkins몭s desk. 

몮I몭ve no idea, but thank goodness we got here so early, 
if you몭d missed it it would have been catastrophic!몯 

Mr. Weasley skidded to a halt beside the lifts and 
jabbed impatiently at the down button. 

몮Come ON!몯 

The lift clattered into view and they hurried inside. 
Every time it stopped Mr. Weasley cursed furiously 
and pummelled the number nine button. 

몮Those courtrooms haven몭t been used in years,몯 said 
Mr. Weasley angrily. 몮I can몭t think why they몭re doing it 
down there 멪 unless 멪 but no ...몯 

A plump witch carrying a smoking goblet entered the 
lift at that moment, and Mr. Weasley did not 
elaborate. 

몮The Atrium,몯 said the cool female voice and the 
golden grilles slid open, showing Harry a distant 
glimpse of the golden statues in the fountain. The 

| 173Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




plump witch got out and a sallow-skinned wizard with 
a very mournful face got in. 



몮Morning, Arthur,몯 he said in a sepulchral voice as 
the lift began to descend. 몮Don몭t often see you down 
here...몯 

몮Urgent business, Bode,몯 said Mr. Weasley, who was 
bouncing on the balls of his feet and throwing 
anxious looks over at Harry. 

몮Ah, yes,몯 said Bode, surveying Harry unblinkingly. 

몮Of course.몯 

Harry barely had emotion to spare for Bode, but his 
unfaltering gaze did not make him feel any more 
comfortable. 

몮Department of Mysteries,몯 said the cool female voice, 
and left it at that. 

몮Quick, Harry,몯 said Mr. Weasley as the lift doors 
rattled open, and they sped up a corridor that was 
quite different from those above. The walls were bare; 
there were no windows and no doors apart from a 
plain black one set at the very end of the corridor. 
Harry expected them to go through it, but instead Mr. 
Weasley seized him by the arm and dragged him to 
the left, where there was an opening leading to a flight 
of steps. 

몮Down here, down here,몯 panted Mr. Weasley, taking 
two steps at a time. 몮The lift doesn몭t even come down 
this far ... why they몭re doing it there ...몯 

They reached the bottom of the steps and ran along 
yet another corridor, which bore a great resemblance 
to that which led to Snape몭s dungeon at Hogwarts, 
with rough stone walls and torches in brackets. The 

| 174Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




doors they passed here were heavy wooden ones with 
iron bolts and keyholes. 

몮Courtroom ... ten ... I think ... we몭re nearly ... yes.몯 

Mr. Weasley stumbled to a halt outside a grimy dark 
door with an immense iron lock and slumped against 
the wall, clutching at a stitch in his chest. 

몮Go on,몯 he panted, pointing his thumb at the door. 
몮Get in there.몯 

몮Aren몭t 멪 aren몭t you coming with 멪 ?몯 

몮No, no, I몭m not allowed. Good luck!몯 

Harry몭s heart was beating a violent tattoo against his 
Adam몭s apple. He swallowed hard, turned the heavy 
iron door handle, and stepped inside the courtroom. 



| 175Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




8 




THE HEARING 

Harry gasped; he could not help himself. The large 
dungeon he had entered was horribly familiar. He had 
not only seen it before, he had been here before: This 
was the place he had visited inside Dumbledore몭s 
Pensieve, the place where he had watched the 
Lestranges sentenced to life imprisonment in 
Azkaban. 

The walls were made of dark stone, dimly lit by 
torches. Empty benches rose on either side of him, 
but ahead, in the highest benches of all, were many 
shadowy figures. They had been talking in low voices, 
but as the heavy door swung closed behind Harry an 
ominous silence fell. 

A cold male voice rang across the courtroom. 

몮You몭re late.몯 

몮Sorry,몯 said Harry nervously. 몮I-I didn몭t know the 
time had changed.몯 



| 176Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



몮That is not the Wizengamot몭s fault,몯 said the voice. 
몮An owl was sent to you this morning. Take your 
seat.몯 

Harry dropped his gaze to the chair in the center of 
the room, the arms of which were covered in chains. 
He had seen those chains spring to life and bind 
whoever sat between them. His footsteps echoed 
loudly as he walked across the stone floor. When he 
sat gingerly on the edge of the chair the chains 
clinked rather threateningly but did not bind him. 
Feeling rather sick he looked up at the people seated 
at the bench above. 

There were about fifty of them, all, as far as he could 
see, wearing plum-colored robes with an elaborately 
worked silver W on the left-hand side of the chest and 
all staring down their noses at him, some with very 
austere expressions, others looks of frank curiosity. 

In the very middle of the front row sat Cornelius 
Fudge, the Minister of Magic. Fudge was a portly man 
who often sported a lime-green bowler hat, though 
today he had dispensed with it; he had dispensed too 
with the indulgent smile he had once worn when he 
spoke to Harry. A broad, square-jawed witch with 
very short gray hair sat on Fudge몭s left; she wore a 
monocle and looked forbidding. On Fudge몭s right was 
another witch, but she was sitting so far back on the 
bench that her face was in shadow. 

몮Very well,몯 said Fudge. 몮The accused being present 
멪 finally 멪 let us begin. Are you ready?몯 he called 
down the row. 

몮Yes, sir,몯 said an eager voice Harry knew. Ron몭s 
brother Percy was sitting at the very end of the front 
bench. Harry looked at Percy, expecting some sign of 
recognition from him, but none came. Percy몭s eyes, 

| 177Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




behind his horn-rimmed glasses, were fixed on his 
parchment, a quill poised in his hand. 



몮Disciplinary hearing of the twelfth of August,몯 said 
Fudge in a ringing voice, and Percy began taking 
notes at once, 몮into offenses committed under the 
Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of Underage 
Sorcery and the International Statute of Secrecy by 
Harry James Potter, resident at number four, Privet 
Drive, Little Whinging, Surrey. 

몮Interrogators: Cornelius Oswald Fudge, Minister of 
Magic; Amelia Susan Bones, Head of the Department 
of Magical Law Enforcement; Dolores Jane Umbridge, 
Senior Undersecretary to the Minister. Court Scribe, 
Percy Ignatius Weasley 멪 몯 

몮 멪 Witness for the defense, Albus Percival Wulfric 
Brian Dumbledore,몯 said a quiet voice from behind 
Harry, who turned his head so fast he cricked his 
neck. 

Dumbledore was striding serenely across the room 
wearing long midnight-blue robes and a perfectly 
calm expression. His long silver beard and hair 
gleamed in the torchlight as he drew level with Harry 
and looked up at Fudge through the half-moon 
spectacles that rested halfway down his very crooked 
nose. 

The members of the Wizengamot were muttering. All 
eyes were now on Dumbledore. Some looked annoyed, 
others slightly frightened; two elderly witches in the 
back row, however, raised their hands and waved in 
welcome. 

A powerful emotion had risen in Harry몭s chest at the 
sight of Dumbledore, a fortified, hopeful feeling rather 
like that which phoenix song gave him. He wanted to 

| 178Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




catch Dumbledore몭s eye, but Dumbledore was not 
looking his way; he was continuing to look up at the 
obviously flustered Fudge. 

몮Ah,몯 said Fudge, who looked thoroughly 
disconcerted. 몮Dumbledore. Yes. You 멪 er 멪 got our 

멪 er 멪 message that the time and 멪 er 멪 place of 
the hearing had been changed, then?몯 

몮I must have missed it,몯 said Dumbledore cheerfully. 
몮However, due to a lucky mistake I arrived at the 
Ministry three hours early, so no harm done.몯 

몮Yes 멪 well 멪 I suppose well need another chair 멪 I 

멪 Weasley, could you 멪 ?몯 

몮Not to worry, not to worry,몯 said Dumbledore 
pleasantly; he took out his wand, gave it a little flick, 
and a squashy chintz armchair appeared out of 
nowhere next to Harry. Dumbledore sat down, put the 
tips of his long fingers together, and looked at Fudge 
over them with an expression of polite interest. The 
Wizengamot was still muttering and fidgeting 
restlessly; only when Fudge spoke again did they 
settle down. 

몮Yes,몯 said Fudge again, shuffling his notes. 몮Well, 
then. So. The charges. Yes.몯 

He extricated a piece of parchment from the pile 
before him, took a deep breath, and read, 몮The 
charges against the accused are as follows: That he 
did knowingly, deliberately, and in full awareness of 
the illegality of his actions, having received a previous 
written warning from the Ministry of Magic on a 
similar charge, produce a Patronus Charm in a 
Muggle-inhabited area, in the presence of a Muggle, 
on August the second at twenty-three minutes past 
nine, which constitutes an offense under paragraph C 
| 179Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




of the Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of 
Underage Sorcery, 1875, and also under section 
thirteen of the International Confederation of Wizards몭 
Statute of Secrecy. 

몮You are Harry James Potter, of number four, Privet 
Drive, Little Whinging, Surrey?몯 Fudge said, glaring at 
Harry over the top of his parchment. 

몮Yes,몯 Harry said. 

몮You received an official warning from the Ministry for 
using illegal magic three years ago, did you not?몯 

몮Yes, but 멪 몯 

몮And yet you conjured a Patronus on the night of the 
second of August?몯 said Fudge. 

몮Yes,몯 said Harry, 몮but 멪 몯 

몮Knowing that you are not permitted to use magic 
outside school while you are under the age of 
seventeen?몯 

몮Yes, but 멪 몯 

몮Knowing that you were in an area full of Muggles?몯 
몮Yes, but 멪 몯 

몮Fully aware that you were in close proximity to a 
Muggle at the time? 

몮Yes,몯 said Harry angrily, 몮but I only used it because 
we were 멪 몯 

The witch with the monocle on Fudge몭s left cut across 
him in a booming voice. 

| 180Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮You produced a fully fledged Patronus?몯 



몮Yes,몯 said Harry, 몮because 멪 몯 

몮A corporeal Patronus?몯 

몮A 멪 what?몯 said Harry. 

몮Your Patronus had a clearly defined form? I mean to 
say, it was more than vapor or smoke?몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Harry, feeling both impatient and slightly 
desperate, 몮it몭s a stag, it몭s always a stag.몯 

몮Always?몯 boomed Madam Bones. 몮You have 
produced a Patronus before now?몯 

몮Yes몯 said Harry, 몮I몭ve been doing it for over a year 멪 



몮And you are fifteen years old?몯 

몮Yes, and 멪 몯 

몮You learned this at school?몯 

몮Yes, Professor Lupin taught me in my third year, 
because of the 멪 몯 

몮Impressive,몯 said Madam Bones, staring down at 
him, 몮a true Patronus at that age ... very impressive 
indeed.몯 

Some of the wizards and witches around her were 
muttering again; a few nodded, but others were 
frowning and shaking their heads. 

몮It몭s not a question of how impressive the magic was,몯 
said Fudge in a testy voice. 몮In fact, the more 

| 181Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




impressive the worse it is, I would have thought, given 
that the boy did it in plain view of a Muggle!몯 



Those who had been frowning now murmured in 
agreement, but it was the sight of Percy몭s 
sanctimonious little nod that goaded Harry into 
speech. 

몮I did it because of the dementors!몯 he said loudly, 
before anyone could interrupt him again. 

He had expected more muttering, but the silence that 
fell seemed to be somehow denser than before. 

몮Dementors?몯 said Madam Bones after a moment, 
raising her thick eyebrows so that her monocle looked 
in danger of falling out. 몮What do you mean, boy?몯 

몮I mean there were two dementors down that alleyway 
and they went for me and my cousin!몯 

몮Ah,몯 said Fudge again, smirking unpleasantly as he 
looked around at the Wizengamot, as though inviting 
them to share the joke. 몮Yes. Yes, I thought we몭d be 
hearing something like this.몯 

몮Dementors in Little Whinging?몯 Madam Bones said 
in tones of great surprise. 몮I don몭t understand 멪 몯 

몮Don몭t you, Amelia?몯 said Fudge, still smirking. 몮Let 
me explain. He몭s been thinking it through and decided 
dementors would make a very nice little cover story, 
very nice indeed. Muggles can몭t see dementors, can 
they, boy? Highly convenient, highly convenient ... so 
it몭s just your word and no witnesses...몯 

몮I몭m not lying!몯 said Harry loudly, over another 
outbreak of muttering from the court. 몮There were two 
of them, coming from opposite ends of the alley, 

| 182Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




everything went dark and cold and my cousin felt 
them and ran for it 멪 몯 

몮Enough, enough!몯 said Fudge with a very 
supercilious look on his face. 몮I몭m sorry to interrupt 
what I몭m sure would have been a very well-rehearsed 
story 멪 몯 

Dumbledore cleared his throat. The Wizengamot fell 
silent again. 

몮We do, in fact, have a witness to the presence of 
dementors in that alleyway,몯 he said, 몮other than 
Dudley Dursley, I mean.몯 

Fudge몭s plump face seemed to slacken, as though 
somebody had let air out of it. He stared down at 
Dumbledore for a moment or two, then, with the 
appearance of a man pulling himself back together, 
said, 몮We haven몭t got time to listen to more 
taradiddles, I몭m afraid, Dumbledore. I want this dealt 
with quickly 멪 몯 

몮I may be wrong,몯 said Dumbledore pleasantly, 몮but I 
am sure that under the Wizengamot Charter of 
Rights, the accused has the right to present witnesses 
for his or her case? Isn몭t that the policy of the 
Department of Magical Law Enforcement, Madam 
Bones?몯 he continued, addressing the witch in the 
monocle. 

몮True,몯 said Madam Bones. 몮Perfectly true.몯 

몮Oh, very well, very well,몯 snapped Fudge. 몮Where is 
this person?몯 

몮I brought her with me,몯 said Dumbledore. 몮She몭s just 
outside the door. Should I 멪 ?몯 



| 183Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮No 멪 Weasley, you go,몯 Fudge barked at Percy, who 
got up at once, hurried down the stone steps from the 
judge몭s balcony, and hastened past Dumbledore and 
Harry without glancing at them. 

A moment later, Percy returned, followed by Mrs. 

Figg. She looked scared and more batty than ever. 
Harry wished she had thought to change out of her 
carpet slippers. 

Dumbledore stood up and gave Mrs. Figg his chair, 
conjuring a second one for himself. 

몮Full name?몯 said Fudge loudly, when Mrs. Figg had 
perched herself nervously on the very edge of her 
seat. 

몮Arabella Doreen Figg,몯 said Mrs. Figg in her quavery 
voice. 

몮And who exactly are you?몯 said Fudge, in a bored 
and lofty voice. 

몮I몭m a resident of Little Whinging, close to where 
Harry Potter lives,몯 said Mrs. Figg. 

몮We have no record of any witch or wizard living in 
Little Whinging other than Harry Potter,몯 said Madam 
Bones at once. 몮That situation has always been 
closely monitored, given ... given past events.몯 

몮I몭m a Squib,몯 said Mrs. Figg. 몮So you wouldn몭t have 
me registered, would you?몯 

몮A Squib, eh?몯 said Fudge, eyeing her suspiciously. 
몮We몭ll be checking that. You몭ll leave details of your 
parentage with my assistant, Weasley. Incidentally, 
can Squibs see dementors?몯 he added, looking left 
and right along the bench where he sat. 

| 184Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Yes, we can!몯 said Mrs. Figg indignantly. 



Fudge looked back down at her, his eyebrows raised. 
몮Very well,몯 he said coolly. 몮What is your story?몯 

몮I had gone out to buy cat food from the corner shop 
at the end of Wisteria Walk, shortly after nine on the 
evening of the second of August,몯 gabbled Mrs. Figg at 
once, as though she had learned what she was saying 
by heart, 몮when I heard a disturbance down the 
alleyway between Magnolia Crescent and Wisteria 
Walk. On approaching the mouth of the alleyway I 
saw dementors running 멪 몯 

몮Running?몯 said Madam Bones sharply. 몮Dementors 
don몭t run, they glide.몯 

몮That몭s what I meant to say,몯 said Mrs. Figg quickly, 
patches of pink appearing in her withered cheeks. 
몮Gliding along the alley toward what looked like two 
boys.몯 

몮What did they look like?몯 said Madam Bones, 
narrowing her eyes so that the monocle몭s edges 
disappeared into her flesh. 

몮Well, one was very large and the other one rather 
skinny 멪 몯 

몮No, no,몯 said Madam Bones impatiently, 몮the 
dementors ... describe them.몯 

몮Oh,몯 said Mrs. Figg, the pink flush creeping up her 
neck now. 몮They were big. Big and wearing cloaks.몯 

Harry felt a horrible sinking in the pit of his stomach. 
Whatever Mrs. Figg said to the contrary, it sounded to 
him as though the most she had ever seen was a 
picture of a dementor, and a picture could never 

| 185Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




convey the truth of what these beings were like: the 
eerie way they moved, hovering inches over the 
ground, or the rotting smell of them, or that terrible, 
rattling noise they made as they sucked on the 
surrounding air ... A dumpy wizard with a large black 
mustache in the second row leaned close to his 
neighbor, a frizzy-haired witch, and whispered 
something in her ear. She smirked and nodded. 

몮Big and wearing cloaks,몯 repeated Madam Bones 
coolly, while Fudge snorted derisively. 몮I see. Anything 
else?몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Mrs. Figg. 몮I felt them. Everything went 
cold, and this was a very warm summer몭s night, mark 
you. And I felt ... as though all happiness had gone 
from the world . . . and I remembered . . . dreadful 
things...몯 

Her voice shook and died. 

Madam Bones몭 eyes widened slightly. Harry could see 
red marks under her eyebrow where the monocle had 
dug into it. 

몮What did the dementors do?몯 she asked, and Harry 
felt a rush of hope. 

몮They went for the boys,몯 said Mrs. Figg, her voice 
stronger and more confident now, the pink flush 
ebbing away from her face. 몮One of them had fallen. 
The other was backing away, trying to repel the 
dementor. That was Harry. He tried twice and 
produced silver vapor. On the third attempt, he 
produced a Patronus, which charged down the first 
dementor and then, with his encouragement, chased 
away the second from his cousin. And that ... that 
was what happened,몯 Mrs. Figg finished, somewhat 
lamely. 

| 186Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Madam Bones looked down at Mrs. Figg in silence; 
Fudge was not looking at her at all, but fidgeting with 
his papers. Finally he raised his eyes and said, rather 
aggressively 몮That몭s what you saw, is it?몯 

몮That was what happened,몯 Mrs. Figg repeated. 

몮Very well,몯 said Fudge. 몮You may go.몯 

Mrs. Figg cast a frightened look from Fudge to 
Dumbledore, then got up and shuffled off toward the 
door again. Harry heard it thud shut behind her. 

몮Not a very convincing witness,몯 said Fudge loftily. 

몮Oh, I don몭t know,몯 said Madam Bones in her 
booming voice. 몮She certainly described the effects of 
a dementor attack very accurately. And I can몭t 
imagine why she would say they were there if they 
weren몭t 멪 몯 

몮But dementors wandering into a Muggle suburb and 
just happening to come across a wizard?몯 snorted 
Fudge. 몮The odds on that must be very, very long, 
even Bagman wouldn몭t have bet 멪 몯 

몮Oh, I don몭t think any of us believe the dementors 
were there by coincidence,몯 said Dumbledore lightly. 

The witch sitting to the right of Fudge with her face in 
shadow moved slightly, but everyone else was quite 
still and silent. 

몮And what is that supposed to mean?몯 asked Fudge 
icily. 

몮It means that I think they were ordered there,몯 said 
Dumbledore. 



| 187Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I think we might have a record of it if someone had 
ordered a pair of dementors to go strolling through 
Little Whinging!몯 barked Fudge. 

몮Not if the dementors are taking orders from someone 
other than the Ministry of Magic these days,몯 said 
Dumbledore calmly. 몮I have already given you my 
views on this matter, Cornelius.몯 

몮Yes, you have,몯 said Fudge forcefully, 몮and I have no 
reason to believe that your views are anything other 
than bilge, Dumbledore. The dementors remain in 
place in Azkaban and are doing everything we ask 
them to.몯 

몮Then,몯 said Dumbledore, quietly but clearly, 몮we 
must ask ourselves why somebody within the 
Ministry ordered a pair of dementors into that 
alleyway on the second of August.몯 

In the complete silence that greeted these words, the 
witch to the right of Fudge leaned forward so that 
Harry saw her for the first time. 

He thought she looked just like a large, pale toad. She 
was rather squat with a broad, flabby face, as little 
neck as Uncle Vernon, and a very wide, slack mouth. 
Her eyes were large, round, and slightly bulging. Even 
the little black velvet bow perched on top of her short 
curly hair put him in mind of a large fly she was 
about to catch on a long sticky tongue. 

몮The Chair recognizes Dolores Jane Umbridge, Senior 
Undersecretary to the Minister,몯 said Fudge. 

The witch spoke in a fluttery, girlish, high-pitched 
voice that took Harry aback; he had been expecting a 
croak. 



| 188Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I몭m sure I must have misunderstood you, Professor 
Dumbledore,몯 she said with a simper that left her big, 
round eyes as cold as ever. 몮So silly of me. But it 
sounded for a teensy moment as though you were 
suggesting that the Ministry of Magic had ordered an 
attack on this boy!몯 

She gave a silvery laugh that made the hairs on the 
back of Harry몭s neck stand up. A few other members 
of the Wizengamot laughed with her. It could not have 
been plainer that not one of them was really amused. 

몮If it is true that the dementors are taking orders only 
from the Ministry of Magic, and it is also true that two 
dementors attacked Harry and his cousin a week ago, 
then it follows logically that somebody at the Ministry 
might have ordered the attacks,몯 said Dumbledore 
politely. 몮Of course, these particular dementors may 
have been outside Ministry control 멪 몯 

몮There are no dementors outside Ministry control!몯 
snapped Fudge, who had turned brick red. 

Dumbledore inclined his head in a little bow. 

몮Then undoubtedly the Ministry will be making a full 
inquiry into why two dementors were so very far from 
Azkaban and why they attacked without 
authorization.몯 

몮It is not for you to decide what the Ministry of Magic 
does or does not do, Dumbledore!몯 snapped Fudge, 
now a shade of magenta of which Uncle Vernon would 
have been proud. 

몮Of course it isn몭t,몯 said Dumbledore mildly. 몮I was 
merely expressing my confidence that this matter will 
not go uninvestigated.몯 



| 189Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He glanced at Madam Bones, who readjusted her 
monocle and stared back at him, frowning slightly. 

몮I would remind everybody that the behavior of these 
dementors, if indeed they are not figments of this 
boy몭s imagination, is not the subject of this hearing!몯 
said Fudge. 몮We are here to examine Harry Potter몭s 
offenses under the Decree for the Reasonable 
Restriction of Underage Sorcery!몯 

몮Of course we are,몯 said Dumbledore, 몮but the 
presence of dementors in that alleyway is highly 
relevant. Clause seven of the Decree states that magic 
may be used before Muggles in exceptional 
circumstances, and as those exceptional 
circumstances include situations that threaten the 
life of the wizard or witch himself, or witches, wizards, 
or Muggles present at the time of the 멪 몯 

몮We are familiar with clause seven, thank you very 
much!몯 snarled Fudge. 

몮Of course you are,몯 said Dumbledore courteously. 
몮Then we are in agreement that Harry몭s use of the 
Patronus Charm in these circumstances falls 
precisely into the category of exceptional 
circumstances it describes?몯 

몮If there were dementors, which I doubt 멪 몯 

몮You have heard from an eyewitness,몯 Dumbledore 
interrupted. 몮If you still doubt her truthfulness, call 
her back, question her again. I am sure she would not 
object.몯 

몮I 멪 that 멪 not 멪 몯 blustered Fudge, fiddling with the 
papers before him. 몮It몭s 멪 I want this over with today, 
Dumbledore!몯 



| 190Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮But naturally, you would not care how many times 
you heard from a witness, if the alternative was a 
serious miscarriage of justice,몯 said Dumbledore. 

몮Serious miscarriage, my hat!몯 said Fudge at the top 
of his voice. 몮Have you ever bothered to tot up the 
number of cock-and-bull stories this boy has come 
out with, Dumbledore, while trying to cover up his 
flagrant misuse of magic out of school? I suppose 
you몭ve forgotten the Hover Charm he used three years 
ago -몯 

몮That wasn몭t me, it was a house-elf!몯 said Harry. 

몮YOU SEE?몯 roared Fudge, gesturing flamboyantly in 
Harry몭s direction. 몮A house-elf! In a Muggle house! I 
ask you 멪 몯 

몮The house-elf in question is currently in the employ 
of Hogwarts School,몯 said Dumbledore. 몮I can 
summon him here in an instant to give evidence if 
you wish.몯 

몮I 멪 not 멪 I haven몭t got time to listen to house-elves! 
Anyway, that몭s not the only 멪 he blew up his aunt, 
for God몭s sake!몯 Fudge shouted, banging his fist on 
the judge몭s bench and upsetting a bottle of ink. 

몮And you very kindly did not press charges on that 
occasion, accepting, I presume, that even the best 
wizards cannot always control their emotions,몯 said 
Dumbledore calmly, as Fudge attempted to scrub the 
ink off his notes. 

몮And I haven몭t even started on what he gets up to at 
school 멪 몯 

몮 멪 but as the Ministry has no authority to punish 
Hogwarts students for misdemeanors at school, 

| 191Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry몭s behavior there is not relevant to this inquiry,몯 
said Dumbledore, politely as ever, but now with a 
suggestion of coolness behind his words. 

몮Oho!몯 said Fudge. 몮Not our business what he does at 
school, eh? You think so?몯 

몮The Ministry does not have the power to expel 
Hogwarts students, Cornelius, as I reminded you on 
the night of the second of August,몯 said Dumbledore. 
몮Nor does it have the right to confiscate wands until 
charges have been successfully proven, again, as I 
reminded you on the night of the second of August. In 
your admirable haste to ensure that the law is 
upheld, you appear, inadvertently I am sure, to have 
overlooked a few laws yourself.몯 

몮Laws can be changed,몯 said Fudge savagely. 

몮Of course they can,몯 said Dumbledore, inclining his 
head. 몮And you certainly seem to be making many 
changes, Cornelius. Why, in the few short weeks 
since I was asked to leave the Wizengamot, it has 
already become the practice to hold a full criminal 
trial to deal with a simple matter of underage magic!몯 

A few of the wizards above them shifted 
uncomfortably in their seats. Fudge turned a slightly 
deeper shade of puce. The toadlike witch on his right, 
however, merely gazed at Dumbledore, her face quite 
expressionless. 

몮As far as I am aware, however,몯 Dumbledore 
continued, 몮there is no law yet in place that says this 
court몭s job is to punish Harry for every bit of magic he 
has ever performed. He has been charged with a 
specific offense and he has presented his defense. All 
he and I can do now is to await your verdict.몯 



| 192Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore put his fingertips together again and said 
no more. Fudge glared at him, evidently incensed. 
Harry glanced sideways at Dumbledore, seeking 
reassurance; he was not at all sure that Dumbledore 
was right in telling the Wizengamot, in effect, that it 
was about time they made a decision. Again, however, 
Dumbledore seemed oblivious to Harry몭s attempt to 
catch his eye. He continued to look up at the benches 
where the entire Wizengamot had fallen into urgent, 
whispered conversations. 

Harry looked at his feet. His heart, which seemed to 
have swollen to an unnatural size, was thumping 
loudly under his ribs. He had expected the hearing to 
last longer than this. He was not at all sure that he 
had made a good impression. He had not really said 
very much. He ought to have explained more fully 
about the dementors, about how he had fallen over, 
about how both he and Dudley had nearly been 
kissed... 

Twice he looked up at Fudge and opened his mouth to 
speak, but his swollen heart was now constricting his 
air passages and both times he merely took a deep 
breath and looked back at his shoes. 

Then the whispering stopped. Harry wanted to look 
up at the judges, but found that it was really much, 
much easier to keep examining his laces. 

몮Those in favor of clearing the accused of all 
charges?몯 said Madam Bones 몭s booming voice. 

Harry몭s head jerked upward. There were hands in the 
air, many of them . . . more than half! Breathing very 
fast, he tried to count, but before he could finish 
Madam Bones had said, 몮And those in favor of 
conviction?몯 



| 193Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Fudge raised his hand; so did half a dozen others, 
including the witch on his right and the heavily 
mustached wizard and the frizzy-haired witch in the 
second row. 

Fudge glanced around at them all, looking as though 
there was something large stuck in his throat, then 
lowered his own hand. He took two deep breaths and 
then said, in a voice distorted by suppressed rage, 
몮Very well, very well ... cleared of all charges.몯 

몮Excellent,몯 said Dumbledore briskly, springing to his 
feet, pulling out his wand, and causing the two chintz 
armchairs to vanish. 몮Well, I must be getting along. 
Good day to you all.몯 

And without looking once at Harry, he swept from the 
dungeon. 



| 194Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






THE WOES OF MRS. WEASLEY 

Dumbledore몭s abrupt departure took Harry 
completely by surprise. He remained sitting where he 
was in the chained chair, struggling with his feelings 
of shock and relief. The Wizengamot were all getting 
to their feet, talking, and gathering up their papers 
and packing them away. Harry stood up. Nobody 
seemed to be paying him the slightest bit of attention 
except the toadlike witch on Fudge몭s right, who was 
now gazing down at him instead of at Dumbledore. 
Ignoring her, he tried to catch Fudge몭s eye, or Madam 
Bones몭s, wanting to ask whether he was free to go, 
but Fudge seemed quite determined not to notice 
Harry, and Madam Bones was busy with her 
briefcase, so he took a few tentative steps toward the 
exit and when nobody called him back, broke into a 
very fast walk. 

He took the last few steps at a run, wrenched open 
the door, and almost collided with Mr. Weasley, who 
was standing right outside, looking pale and 
apprehensive. 



| 195Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



몮Dumbledore didn몭t say 멪 몯 



몮Cleared,몯 Harry said, pulling the door closed behind 
him, 몮of all charges!몯 

Beaming, Mr. Weasley seized Harry by the shoulders. 

몮Harry, that몭s wonderful! Well, of course, they couldn몭t 
have found you guilty, not on the evidence, but even 
so, I can몭t pretend I wasn몭t 멪 몯 

But Mr. Weasley broke off, because the courtroom 
door had just opened again. The Wizengamot were 
filing out. 

몮Merlin몭s beard,몯 said Mr. Weasley wonderingly, 
pulling Harry aside to let them all pass, 몮you were 
tried by the full court?몯 

몮I think so,몯 said Harry quietly. 

One or two of the passing wizards nodded to Harry as 
they passed and a few, including Madam Bones, said, 
몮Morning, Arthur,몯 to Mr. Weasley, but most averted 
their eyes. Cornelius Fudge and the toadlike witch 
were almost the last to leave the dungeon. Fudge 
acted as though Mr. Weasley and Harry were part of 
the wall, but again, the witch looked almost 
appraisingly at Harry as she passed. Last of all to 
pass was Percy. Like Fudge, he completely ignored his 
father and Harry; he marched past clutching a large 
roll of parchment and a handful of spare quills, his 
back rigid and his nose in the air. The lines around 
Mr. Weasley몭s mouth tightened slightly, but other 
than this he gave no sign that he had noticed his 
third son. 

몮I몭m going to take you straight back so you can tell 
the others the good news,몯 he said, beckoning Harry 

| 196Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




forward as Percy몭s heels disappeared up the stairs to 
the ninth level. I몭ll drop you off on the way to that 
toilet in Bethnal Green. Come on...몯 



몮So what will you have to do about the toilet?몯 Harry 
asked, grinning. Everything suddenly seemed five 
times funnier than usual. It was starting to sink in: 
He was cleared, he was going hack to Hogwarts. 

몮Oh, it몭s a simple enough anti-jinx,몯 said Mr. Weasley 
as they mounted the stairs, 몮but it몭s not so much 
having to repair the damage, it몭s more the attitude 
behind the vandalism, Harry. Muggle-baiting might 
strike some wizards as funny, but it몭s an expression 
of something much deeper and nastier, and I for one 



Mr. Weasley broke off in mid-sentence. They had just 
reached the ninth-level corridor, and Cornelius Fudge 
was standing a few feet away from them, talking 
quietly to a tall man with sleek blond hair and a 
pointed, pale face. 

The second man turned at the sound of their 
footsteps. He too broke off in mid-conversation, his 
cold gray eyes narrowed and fixed upon Harry몭s face. 

몮Well, well, well ... Patronus Potter,몯 said Lucius 
Malfoy coolly. 

Harry felt winded, as though he had just walked into 
something heavy. He had last seen those cool gray 
eyes through slits in a Death Eater몭s hood, and last 
heard that man몭s voice jeering in a dark graveyard 
while Lord Voldemort tortured him. He could not 
believe that Lucius Malfoy dared look him in the face; 
he could not believe that he was here, in the Ministry 
of Magic, or that Cornelius Fudge was talking to him, 



| 197Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




when Harry had told Fudge mere weeks ago that 
Malfoy was a Death Eater. 

몮The Minister was just telling me about your lucky 
escape, Potter,몯 drawled Mr. Malfoy. 몮Quite 
astonishing, the way you continue to wriggle out of 
very tight holes... Snakelike, in fact ...몯 

Mr. Weasley gripped Harry몭s shoulder in warning. 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry, 몮yeah, I몭m good at escaping...몯 

Lucius Malfoy raised his eyes to Mr. Weasley몭s face. 

몮And Arthur Weasley too! What are you doing here, 
Arthur?몯 

몮I work here,몯 said Mr. Weasley shortly. 

몮Not here, surely?몯 said Mr. Malfoy, raising his 
eyebrows and glancing toward the door over Mr. 
Weasley몭s shoulder. 몮I thought you were up on the 
second floor. . . Don몭t you do something that involves 
sneaking Muggle artifacts home and bewitching 
them?몯 

몮No,몯 said Mr. Weasley curtly, his fingers now biting 
into Harry몭s shoulder. 

몮What are you doing here anyway?몯 Harry asked 
Lucius Malfoy. 

몮I don몭t think private matters between myself and the 
Minister are any concern of yours, Potter,몯 said 
Malfoy, smoothing the front of his robes; Harry 
distinctly heard the gentle clinking of what sounded 
like a full pocket of gold. 몮Really, just because you are 
Dumbledore몭s favorite boy, you must not expect the 



| 198Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




same indulgence from the rest of us... Shall we go up 
to your office, then, Minister?몯 

몮Certainly,몯 said Fudge, turning his back on Harry 
and Mr. Weasley. 몮This way, Lucius.몯 

They strode off together, talking in low voices. Mr. 
Weasley did not let go of Harry몭s shoulder until they 
had disappeared into the lift. 

몮Why wasn몭t he waiting outside Fudge몭s office if 
they몭ve got business to do together?몯 Harry burst out 
furiously. 몮What was he doing down here?몯 

몮Trying to sneak down to the courtroom, if you ask 
me,몯 said Mr. Weasley, looking extremely agitated as 
he glanced over his shoulder as though making sure 
they could not be overheard. 몮Trying to find out 
whether you몭d been expelled or not. I몭ll leave a note 
for Dumbledore when I drop you off, he ought to 
know Malfoy몭s been talking to Fudge again.몯 

몮What private business have they got together 
anyway?몯 

몮Gold, I expect,몯 said Mr. Weasley angrily. 몮Malfoy몭s 
been giving generously to all sorts of things for 
years... Gets him in with the right people ... then he 
can ask favors ... delay laws he doesn몭t want passed 
... Oh, he몭s very well connected, Lucius Malfoy...몯 

The lift arrived; it was empty except for a flock of 
memos that flapped around Mr. Weasley몭s head as he 
pressed the button for the Atrium and the doors 
clanged shut; he waved them away irritably. 

몮Mr. Weasley,몯 said Harry slowly, 몮if Fudge is meeting 
Death Eaters like Malfoy, if he몭s seeing them alone, 



| 199Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




how do we know they haven몭t put the Imperius Curse 
on him?몯 

몮Don몭t think it hadn몭t occurred to us, Harry,몯 
muttered Mr. Weasley. 몮But Dumbledore thinks 
Fudge is acting of his own accord at the moment 멪 
which, as Dumbledore says, is not a lot of comfort... 
Best not talk about it anymore just now, Harry...몯 

The doors slid open and they stepped out into the 
now almost-deserted Atrium. Eric the security man 
was hidden behind his Daily Prophet again. They had 
walked straight past the golden fountain before Harry 
remembered. 

몮Wait...몯 he told Mr. Weasley, and pulling his money 
bag from his pocket, he turned back to the fountain. 

He looked up into the handsome wizard몭s face, but up 
close, Harry thought he looked rather weak and 
foolish. The witch was wearing a vapid smile like a 
beauty contestant, and from what Harry knew of 
goblins and centaurs, they were most unlikely to be 
caught staring this soppily at humans of any 
description. Only the house-elf몭s attitude of creeping 
servility looked convincing. With a grin at the thought 
of what Hermione would say if she could see the 
statue of the elf, Harry turned his money bag upside 
down and emptied not just ten Galleons, but the 
whole contents into the pool at the statues몭 feet. 

몮I knew it!몯 yelled Ron, punching the air. 몮You always 
get away with stuff!몯 

몮They were bound to clear you,몯 said Hermione, who 
had looked positively faint with anxiety when Harry 
had entered the kitchen and was now holding a 
shaking hand over her eyes. 몮There was no case 
against you, none at all...몯 

| 200Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Everyone seems quite relieved, though, considering 
they all knew I몭d get off,몯 said Harry, smiling. 

Mrs. Weasley was wiping her face on her apron, and 
Fred, George, and Ginny were doing a kind of war 
dance to a chant that went 몮He got off, he got off he 
got off 멪 몯 

몮That몭s enough, settle down!몯 shouted Mr. Weasley, 
though he too was smiling. 몮Listen, Sirius, Lucius 
Malfoy was at the Ministry 멪 몯 

몮What?몯 said Sirius sharply. 

몮He got off he got off he got off 멪 몯 

몮Be quiet, you three! Yes, we saw him talking to 
Fudge on level nine, then they went up to Fudge몭s 
office together. Dumbledore ought to know.몯 

몮Absolutely,몯 said Sirius. 몮We몭ll tell him, don몭t worry.몯 

몮Well, I몭d better get going, there몭s a vomiting toilet in 
Bethnal Green waiting for me. Molly, I몭ll be late, I몭m 
covering for Tonks, but Kingsley might be dropping in 
for dinner 멪 몯 

몮He got off he got off he got off 멪 몯 

몮That몭s enough 멪 Fred 멪 George 멪 Ginny!몯 said Mrs. 
Weasley, as Mr. Weasley left the kitchen. 몮Harry dear, 
come and sit down, have some lunch, you hardly ate 
breakfast...몯 

Ron and Hermione sat themselves down opposite him 
looking happier than they had done since he had first 
arrived at number twelve, Grimmauld Place, and 
Harry몭s feeling of giddy relief, which had been 
somewhat dented by his encounter with Lucius 
| 201Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Malfoy, swelled again. The gloomy house seemed 
warmer and more welcoming all of a sudden; even 
Kreacher looked less ugly as he poked his snoutlike 
nose into the kitchen to investigate the source of all 
the noise. 

몮 몭Course, once Dumbledore turned up on your side, 
there was no way they were going to convict you,몯 
said Ron happily, now dishing great mounds of 
mashed potatoes onto everyone몭s plates. 

몮Yeah, he swung it for me,몯 said Harry. He felt that it 
would sound highly ungrateful, not to mention 
childish, to say, 몮I wish he몭d talked to me, though. Or 
even looked at me.몯 

And as he thought this, the scar on his forehead 
burned so badly that he clapped his hand to it. 

몮What몭s up?몯 said Hermione, looking alarmed. 

몮Scar,몯 Harry mumbled. 몮But it몭s nothing... It happens 
all the time now...몯 

None of the others had noticed a thing; all of them 
were now helping themselves to food while gloating 
over Harry몭s narrow escape; Fred, George, and Ginny 
were still singing. Hermione looked rather anxious, 
but before she could say anything, Ron said happily, 

몮I bet Dumbledore turns up this evening to celebrate 
with us, you know.몯 

몮I don몭t think he몭ll be able to, Ron,몯 said Mrs. Weasley, 
setting a huge plate of roast chicken down in front of 
Harry. 몮He몭s really very busy at the moment.몯 

몮HE GOT OFF, HE GOT OFF, HE GOT OFF멪몯 

몮SHUT UP!몯 roared Mrs. Weasley. 

| 202Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Over the next few days Harry could not help noticing 
that there was one person within number twelve, 
Grimmauld Place, who did not seem wholly overjoyed 
that he would be returning to Hogwarts. Sirius had 
put up a very good show of happiness on first hearing 
the news, wringing Harry몭s hand and beaming just 
like the rest of them; soon, however, he was moodier 
and surlier than before, talking less to everybody, 
even Harry, and spending increasing amounts of time 
shut up in his mother몭s room with Buckbeak. 

몮Don몭t you go feeling guilty!몯 said Hermione sternly, 
after Harry had confided some of his feelings to her 
and Ron while they scrubbed out a moldy cupboard 
on the third floor a few days later. 몮You belong at 
Hogwarts and Sirius knows it. Personally, I think he몭s 
being selfish.몯 

몮That몭s a bit harsh, Hermione,몯 said Ron, frowning as 
he attempted to prize off a bit of mold that had 
attached itself firmly to his finger, 몮you wouldn몭t want 
to be stuck inside this house without company.몯 

몮He몭ll have company!몯 said Hermione. 몮It몭s 
headquarters to the Order of the Phoenix, isn몭t it? He 
just got his hopes up that Harry would be coming to 
live here with him.몯 

몮I don몭t think that몭s true,몯 said Harry, wringing out 
his cloth. 몮He wouldn몭t give me a straight answer 
when I asked him if I could.몯 

몮He just didn몭t want to get his own hopes up even 
more,몯 said Hermione wisely. 몮And he probably felt a 
bit guilty himself, because I think a part of him was 
really hoping you몭d be expelled. Then you몭d both be 
outcasts together.몯 



| 203Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Come off it!몯 said Harry and Ron together, but 
Hermione merely shrugged. 

몮Suit yourselves. But I sometimes think Ron몭s mum몭s 
right, and Sirius gets confused about whether you몭re 
you or your father, Harry.몯 

몮So you think he몭s touched in the head?몯 said Harry 
heatedly. 

몮No, I just think he몭s been very lonely for a long time,몯 
said Hermione simply. 

At this point Mrs. Weasley entered the bedroom 
behind them. 

몮Still not finished?몯 she said, poking her head into the 
cupboard. 

몮I thought you might be here to tell us to have a 
break!몯 said Ron bitterly. 몮D몭you know how much 
mold we몭ve got rid of since we arrived here?몯 

몮You were so keen to help the Order,몯 said Mrs. 
Weasley, 몮you can do your bit by making 
headquarters fit to live in.몯 

몮I feel like a house-elf,몯 grumbled Ron. 

몮Well, now that you understand what dreadful lives 
they lead, perhaps you몭ll be a bit more active in 
S.P.E.W.!몯 said Hermione hopefully, as Mrs. Weasley 
left them to it again. 몮You know, maybe it wouldn몭t be 
a bad idea to show people exactly how horrible it is to 
clean all the time 멪 we could do a sponsored scrub of 
Gryffindor common room, all proceeds to S.P.E.W., it 
would raise awareness as well as funds 멪 몯 



| 204Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I몭ll sponsor you to shut up about spew,몯 Ron 
muttered irritably, but only so Harry could hear him. 

Harry found himself daydreaming about Hogwarts 
more and more as the end of the holidays 
approached; he could not wait to see Hagrid again, to 
play Quidditch, even to stroll across the vegetable 
patches to the Herbology greenhouses. It would be a 
treat just to leave this dusty, musty house, where half 
of the cupboards were still bolted shut and Kreacher 
wheezed insults out of the shadows as you passed, 
though Harry was careful not to say any of this within 
earshot of Sirius. 

The fact was that living at the headquarters of the 
anti-Voldemort movement was not nearly as 
interesting or exciting as Harry would have expected 
before he몭d experienced it. Though members of the 
Order of the Phoenix came and went regularly, 
sometimes staying for meals, sometimes only for a few 
minutes몭 whispered conversation, Mrs. Weasley made 
sure that Harry and the others were kept well out of 
earshot (whether Extendable or normal) and nobody, 
not even Sirius, seemed to feel that Harry needed to 
know anything more than he had heard on the night 
of his arrival. 

On the very last day of the holidays Harry was 
sweeping up Hedwig몭s owl droppings from the top of 
the wardrobe when Ron entered their bedroom 
carrying a couple of envelopes. 

몮Booklists have arrived,몯 he said, throwing one of the 
envelopes up to Harry, who was standing on a chair. 
몮About time, I thought they몭d forgotten, they usually 
come much earlier than this...몯 

Harry swept the last of the droppings into a rubbish 
bag and threw the bag over Ron몭s head into the 

| 205Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




wastepaper basket in the corner, which swallowed it 
and belched loudly. He then opened his letter: It 
contained two pieces of parchment, one the usual 
reminder that term started on the first of September, 
the other telling him which books he would need for 
the coming year. 

몮Only two new ones,몯 he said, reading the list. 몮The 
Standard Book of Spells, Grade 5, by Miranda 
Goshawk and Defensive Magical Theory, by Wilbert 
Slinkhard.몯 

Crack. 

Fred and George Apparated right beside Harry. He 
was so used to them doing this by now that he didn몭t 
even fall off his chair. 

몮We were just wondering who assigned the Slinkhard 
book,몯 said Fred conversationally. 

몮Because it means Dumbledore몭s found a new 
Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher,몯 said George. 

몮And about time too,몯 said Fred. 

몮What d몭you mean?몯 Harry asked, jumping down 
beside them. 

몮Well, we overheard Mum and Dad talking on the 
Extendable Ears a few weeks back,몯 Fred told Harry, 
몮and from what they were saying, Dumbledore was 
having real trouble finding anyone to do the job this 
year.몯 

몮Not surprising, is it, when you look at what몭s 
happened to the last four?몯 said George. 



| 206Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮One sacked, one dead, one몭s memory removed, and 
one locked in a trunk for nine months,몯 said Harry, 
counting them off on his fingers. 몮Yeah, I see what 
you mean.몯 

몮What몭s up with you, Ron?몯 asked Fred. 

Ron did not answer. Harry looked around. Ron was 
standing very still with his mouth slightly open, 
gaping at his letter from Hogwarts. 

몮What몭s the matter?몯 said Fred impatiently, moving 
around Ron to look over his shoulder at the 
parchment. 

Fred몭s mouth fell open too. 

몮Prefect?몯 he said, staring incredulously at the letter. 
몮Prefect?몯 

George leapt forward, seized the envelope in Ron몭s 
other hand, and turned it upside down. Harry saw 
something scarlet and gold fall into George몭s palm. 

몮No way,몯 said George in a hushed voice. 

몮There몭s been a mistake,몯 said Fred, snatching the 
letter out of Ron몭s grasp and holding it up to the light 
as though checking for a watermark. 몮No one in their 
right mind would make Ron a prefect...몯 

The twins몭 heads turned in unison and both of them 
stared at Harry. 

몮We thought you were a cert!몯 said Fred in a tone that 
suggested Harry had tricked them in some way. 

몮We thought Dumbledore was bound to pick you!몯 
said George indignantly. 

| 207Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Winning the Triwizard and everything!몯 said Fred. 

몮I suppose all the mad stuff must몭ve counted against 
him,몯 said George to Fred. 

몮Yeah,몯 said Fred slowly. 몮Yeah, you몭ve caused too 
much trouble, mate. Well, at least one of you몭s got 
their priorities right.몯 

He strode over to Harry and clapped him on the back 
while giving Ron a scathing look. 

몮Prefect ... ickle Ronnie the prefect ...몯 

몮Oh, Mum몭s going to be revolting,몯 groaned George, 
thrusting the prefect badge back at Ron as though it 
might contaminate him. 

Ron, who still had not said a word, took the badge, 
stared at it for a moment, and then held it out to 
Harry as though asking mutely for confirmation that 
it was genuine. Harry took it. A large P was 
superimposed on the Gryffindor lion. He had seen a 
badge just like this on Percy몭s chest on his very first 
day at Hogwarts. 

The door banged open. Hermione came tearing into 
the room, her cheeks flushed and her hair flying. 
There was an envelope in her hand. 

몮Did you 멪 did you get 멪 ?몯 

She spotted the badge in Harry몭s hand and let out a 
shriek. 

몮I knew it!몯 she said excitedly, brandishing her letter. 
몮Me too, Harry, me too!몯 



| 208Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮No,몯 said Harry quickly, pushing the badge back into 
Ron몭s hand. 몮It몭s Ron, not me.몯 



몮It 멪 what?몯 

몮Ron몭s prefect, not me,몯 Harry said. 

몮Ron?몯 said Hermione, her jaw dropping. 몮But ... are 
you sure? I mean 멪 몯 

She turned red as Ron looked around at her with a 
defiant expression on his face. 

몮It몭s my name on the letter,몯 he said. 

몮I ...몯 said Hermione, looking thoroughly bewildered. 

몮I ... well ... wow! Well done, Ron! That몭s really 멪 몯 

몮Unexpected,몯 said George, nodding. 

몮No,몯 said Hermione, blushing harder than ever, 몮no, 
it몭s not ... Ron몭s done loads of ... he몭s really ...몯 

The door behind her opened a little wider and Mrs. 
Weasley backed into the room carrying a pile of 
freshly laundered robes. 

몮Ginny said the booklists had come at last,몯 she said, 
glancing around at all the envelopes as she made her 
way over to the bed and started sorting the robes into 
two piles. 몮If you give them to me I몭ll take them over to 
Diagon Alley this afternoon and get your books while 
you몭re packing. Ron, I몭ll have to get you more 
pajamas, these are at least six inches too short, I 
can몭t believe how fast you몭re growing ... what color 
would you like?몯 

몮Get him red and gold to match his badge,몯 said 
George, smirking. 

| 209Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Match his what?몯 said Mrs. Weasley absently, rolling 
up a pair of maroon socks and placing them on Ron몭s 
pile. 

몮His badge,몯 said Fred, with the air of getting the 
worst over quickly. 몮His lovely shiny new prefect몭s 
badge.몯 

Fred몭s words took a moment to penetrate Mrs. 
Weasley몭s preoccupation about pajamas. 

몮His ... but ... Ron, you몭re not... ?몯 

Ron held up his badge. 

Mrs. Weasley let out a shriek just like Hermione몭s. 

몮I don몭t believe it! I don몭t believe it! Oh, Ron, how 
wonderful! A prefect! That몭s everyone in the family!몯 

몮What are Fred and I, next-door neighbors?몯 said 
George indignantly, as his mother pushed him aside 
and flung her arms around her youngest son. 

몮Wait until your father hears! Ron, I몭m so proud of 
you, what wonderful news, you could end up Head 
Boy just like Bill and Percy, it몭s the first step! Oh, 
what a thing to happen in the middle of all this worry, 
I몭m just thrilled, oh Ronnie 멪 몯 

Fred and George were both making loud retching 
noises behind her back but Mrs. Weasley did not 
notice; arms tight around Ron몭s neck, she was kissing 
him all over his face, which had turned a brighter 
scarlet than his badge. 

몮Mum ... don몭t ... Mum, get a grip...몯 he muttered, 
trying to push her away. 



| 210Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




She let go of him and said breathlessly, 몮Well, what 
will it be? We gave Percy an owl, but you몭ve already 
got one, of course.몯 

몮W-what do you mean?몯 said Ron, looking as though 
he did not dare believe his ears. 

몮You몭ve got to have a reward for this!몯 said Mrs. 
Weasley fondly. 몮How about a nice new set of dress 
robes?몯 

몮We몭ve already bought him some,몯 said Fred sourly, 
who looked as though he sincerely regretted this 
generosity. 

몮Or a new cauldron, Charlie몭s old one몭s rusting 
through, or a new rat, you always liked Scabbers 멪 몯 

몮Mum,몯 said Ron hopefully, 몮can I have a new 
broom?몯 

Mrs. Weasley몭s face fell slightly; broomsticks were 
expensive. 

몮Not a really good one!몯 Ron hastened to add. 몮Just 멪 
just a new one for a change ...몯 

Mrs. Weasley hesitated, then smiled. 

몮Of course you can... Well, I몭d better get going if I몭ve 
got a broom to buy too. I몭ll see you all later... Little 
Ronnie, a prefect! And don몭t forget to pack your 
trunks... A prefect ... Oh, I몭m all of a dither!몯 

She gave Ron yet another kiss on the cheek, sniffed 
loudly, and bustled from the room. 

Fred and George exchanged looks. 



| 211Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮You don몭t mind if we don몭t kiss you, do you, Ron?몯 
said Fred in a falsely anxious voice. 

몮We could curtsy, if you like,몯 said George. 

몮Oh, shut up,몯 said Ron, scowling at them. 

몮Or what?몯 said Fred, an evil grin spreading across 
his face. 몮Going to put us in detention?몯 

몮I몭d love to see him try,몯 sniggered George. 

몮He could if you don몭t watch out!몯 said Hermione 
angrily, at which Fred and George burst out laughing 
and Ron muttered, 몮Drop it, Hermione.몯 

몮We몭re going to have to watch our step, George,몯 said 
Fred, pretending to tremble, 몮with these two on our 
case...몯 

몮Yeah, it looks like our law-breaking days are finally 
over,몯 said George, shaking his head. 

And with another loud crack, the twins Disapparated. 

몮Those two!몯 said Hermione furiously, staring up at 
the ceiling, through which they could now hear Fred 
and George roaring with laughter in the room 
upstairs. 몮Don몭t pay any attention to them, Ron, 
they몭re only jealous!몯 

몮I don몭t think they are,몯 said Ron doubtfully, also 
looking up at the ceiling. 몮They몭ve always said only 
prats become prefects... Still,몯 he added on a happier 
note, 몮they몭ve never had new brooms! I wish I could go 
with Mum and choose... She몭ll never be able to afford 
a Nimbus, but there몭s the new Cleansweep out, that몭d 
be great... Yeah, I think I몭ll go and tell her I like the 
Cleansweep, just so she knows...몯 

| 212Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He dashed from the room, leaving Harry and 
Hermione alone. 

For some reason, Harry found that he did not want to 
look at Hermione. He turned to his bed, picked up the 
pile of clean robes Mrs. Weasley had laid upon it, and 
crossed the room to his trunk. 

몮Harry?몯 said Hermione tentatively. 

몮Well done,몯 said Harry, so heartily it did not sound 
like his voice at all, and still not looking at her. 
몮Brilliant. Prefect. Great.몯 

몮Thanks,몯 said Hermione. 몮Erm 멪 Harry 멪 could I 
borrow Hedwig so I can tell Mum and Dad? They몭ll be 
really pleased 멪 I mean, prefect is something they 
can understand 멪 몯 

몮Yeah, no problem,몯 said Harry, still in the horrible 
hearty voice that did not belong to him. 몮Take her!몯 

He leaned over his trunk, laid the robes on the 
bottom of it, and pretended to be rummaging for 
something while Hermione crossed to the wardrobe 
and called Hedwig down. A few moments passed; 
Harry heard the door close but remained bent double, 
listening; the only sounds he could hear were the 
blank picture on the wall sniggering again and the 
wastepaper basket in the corner coughing up the owl 
droppings. 

He straightened up and looked behind him. Hermione 
and Hedwig had gone. Harry returned slowly to his 
bed and sank onto it, gazing unseeingly at the foot of 
the wardrobe. 

He had forgotten completely about prefects being 
chosen in the fifth year. He had been too anxious 

| 213Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




about the possibility of being expelled to spare a 
thought for the fact that badges must be winging their 
way toward certain people. But if he had remembered 
... if he had thought about it . . . what would he have 
expected? 

Not this, said a small and truthful voice inside his 
head. 

Harry screwed up his face and buried it in his hands. 
He could not lie to himself; if he had known the 
prefect badge was on its way, he would have expected 
it to come to him, not Ron. Did this make him as 
arrogant as Draco Malfoy? Did he think himself 
superior to everyone else? Did he really believe he was 
better than Ron? 

No, said the small voice defiantly. 

Was that true? Harry wondered, anxiously probing 
his own feelings. 

I몭m better at Quidditch, said the voice. But I몭m not 
better at anything else. 

That was definitely true, Harry thought; he was no 
better than Ron in lessons. But what about outside 
lessons? What about those adventures he, Ron, and 
Hermione had had together since they had started at 
Hogwarts, often risking much worse than expulsion? 

Well, Ron and Hermione were with me most of the 
time, said the voice in Harry몭s head. 

Not all the time, though, Harry argued with himself. 
They didn몭t fight Quirrell with me. They didn몭t take on 
Riddle and the basilisk. They didn몭t get rid of all those 
dementors the night Sirius escaped. They weren몭t in 
that graveyard with me, the night Voldemort returned... 
| 214Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




And the same feeling of ill usage that had 
overwhelmed him on the night he had arrived rose 
again. I몭ve definitely done more, Harry thought 
indignantly. I몭ve done more than either of them\ 

But maybe, said the small voice fairly, maybe 
Dumbledore doesn몭t choose prefects because they몭ve 
got themselves into a load of dangerous situations... 
Maybe he chooses them for other reasons... Ron must 
have something you don몭t... 

Harry opened his eyes and stared through his fingers 
at the wardrobe몭s clawed feet, remembering what Fred 
had said. 

몮No one in their right mind would make Ron a 
prefect...몯 

Harry gave a small snort of laughter. A second later 
he felt sickened with himself. 

Ron had not asked Dumbledore to give him the 
prefect badge. This was not Ron몭s fault. Was he, 

Harry, Ron몭s best friend in the world, going to sulk 
because he didn몭t have a badge, laugh with the twins 
behind Ron몭s back, ruin this for Ron when, for the 
first time, he had beaten Harry at something? 

At this point Harry heard Ron몭s footsteps on the stairs 
again. He stood up, straightened his glasses, and 
hitched a grin onto his face as Ron bounded back 
through the door. 

몮Just caught her!몯 he said happily. 몮She says she몭ll 
get the Cleansweep if she can.몯 

몮Cool,몯 Harry said, and he was relieved to hear that 
his voice had stopped sounding hearty. 몮Listen 멪 Ron 
멪 well done, mate.몯 

| 215Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The smile faded off Ron몭s face. 



몮I never thought it would be me!몯 he said, shaking his 
head, 몮I thought it would be you!몯 

몮Nah, I몭ve caused too much trouble,몯 Harry said, 
echoing Fred. 

몮Yeah,몯 said Ron, 몮yeah, I suppose... Well, we몭d better 
get our trunks packed, hadn몭t we?몯 

It was odd how widely their possessions seemed to 
have scattered themselves since they had arrived. It 
took them most of the afternoon to retrieve their 
books and belongings from all over the house and 
stow them back inside their school trunks. Harry 
noticed that Ron kept moving his prefect몭s badge 
around, first placing it on his bedside table, then 
putting it into his jeans pocket, then taking it out and 
laying it on his folded robes, as though to see the 
effect of the red on the black. Only when Fred and 
George dropped in and offered to attach it to his 
forehead with a Permanent Sticking Charm did he 
wrap it tenderly in his maroon socks and lock it in his 
trunk. 

Mrs. Weasley returned from Diagon Alley around six 
o몭clock, laden with books and carrying a long package 
wrapped in thick brown paper that Ron took from her 
with a moan of longing. 

몮Never mind unwrapping it now, people are arriving 
for dinner, I want you all downstairs,몯 she said, but 
the moment she was out of sight Ron ripped off the 
paper in a frenzy and examined every inch of his new 
broom, an ecstatic expression on his face. 

Down in the basement Mrs. Weasley had hung a 
scarlet banner over the heavily laden dinner table, 

| 216Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




which read CONGRATULATIONS RON AND 
HERMIONE 멪 NEW PREFECTS. She looked in a 
better mood than Harry had seen her all holiday. 

몮I thought we몭d have a little party, not a sit-down 
dinner,몯 she told Harry, Ron, Hermione, Fred, George, 
and Ginny as they entered the room. 몮Your father and 
Bill are on their way, Ron, I몭ve sent them both owls 
and they몭re thrilled,몯 she added, beaming. 

Fred rolled his eyes. 

Sirius, Lupin, Tonks, and Kingsley Shacklebolt were 
already there and Mad-Eye Moody stumped in shortly 
after Harry had got himself a butterbeer. 

몮Oh, Alastor, I am glad you몭re here,몯 said Mrs. 

Weasley brightly, as Mad-Eye shrugged off his 
traveling cloak. 몮We몭ve been wanting to ask you for 
ages 멪 could you have a look in the writing desk in 
the drawing room and tell us what몭s inside it? We 
haven몭t wanted to open it just in case it몭s something 
really nasty.몯 

몮No problem, Molly ...몯 

Moody몭s electric-blue eye swiveled upward and stared 
fixedly through the ceiling of the kitchen. 

몮Drawing room ...몯 he growled, as the pupil 
contracted. 몮Desk in the corner? Yeah, I see it... Yeah, 
it몭s a boggart... Want me to go up and get rid of it, 
Molly?몯 

몮No, no, I몭ll do it myself later,몯 beamed Mrs. Weasley. 
몮You have your drink. We몭re having a little bit of a 
celebration, actually...몯 She gestured at the scarlet 
banner. 몮Fourth prefect in the family!몯 she said 
fondly, ruffling Ron몭s hair. 

| 217Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Prefect, eh?몯 growled Moody, his normal eye on Ron 
and his magical eye swiveling around to gaze into the 
side of his head. Harry had the very uncomfortable 
feeling it was looking at him and moved away toward 
Sirius and Lupin. 

몮Well, congratulations,몯 said Moody, still glaring at 
Ron with his normal eye, 몮authority figures always 
attract trouble, but I suppose Dumbledore thinks you 
can withstand most major jinxes or he wouldn몭t have 
appointed you...몯 

Ron looked rather startled at this view of the matter 
but was saved the trouble of responding by the arrival 
of his father and eldest brother. Mrs. Weasley was in 
such a good mood she did not even complain that 
they had brought Mundungus with them too; he was 
wearing a long overcoat that seemed oddly lumpy in 
unlikely places and declined the offer to remove it and 
put it with Moody몭s traveling cloak. 

몮Well, I think a toast is in order,몯 said Mr. Weasley, 
when everyone had a drink. He raised his goblet. 몮To 
Ron and Hermione, the new Gryffindor prefects!몯 

Ron and Hermione beamed as everyone drank to 
them and then applauded. 

몮I was never a prefect myself,몯 said Tonks brightly 
from behind Harry as everybody moved toward the 
table to help themselves to food. Her hair was tomato- 
red and waist length today; she looked like Ginny몭s 
older sister. 몮My Head of House said I lacked certain 
necessary qualities.몯 

몮Like what?몯 said Ginny, who was choosing a baked 
potato. 

몮Like the ability to behave myself,몯 said Tonks. 

| 218Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Ginny laughed; Hermione looked as though she did 
not know whether to smile or not and compromised 
by taking an extra large gulp of butterbeer and 
choking on it. 

몮What about you, Sirius?몯 Ginny asked, thumping 
Hermione on the back. 

Sirius, who was right beside Harry, let out his usual 
barklike laugh. 

몮No one would have made me a prefect, I spent too 
much time in detention with James. Lupin was the 
good boy, he got the badge.몯 

몮I think Dumbledore might have hoped that I would 
be able to exercise some control over my best friends,몯 
said Lupin. 몮I need scarcely say that I failed dismally.몯 

Harry몭s mood suddenly lifted. His father had not been 
a prefect either. All at once the party seemed much 
more enjoyable; he loaded up his plate, feeling 
unusually fond of everyone in the room. 

Ron was rhapsodizing about his new broom to 
anybody who would listen. 

"... naught to seventy in ten seconds, not bad, is it? 
When you think the Comet Two Ninety몭s only naught 
to sixty and that몭s with a decent tailwind according to 
Which Broomstick?몯 

Hermione was talking very earnestly to Lupin about 
her view of elf rights. 

몮I mean, it몭s the same kind of nonsense as werewolf 
segregation, isn몭t it? It all stems from this horrible 
thing wizards have of thinking they몭re superior to 
other creatures...몯 

| 219Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Mrs. Weasley and Bill were having their usual 
argument about Bill몭s hair. 

"... getting really out of hand, and you몭re so good- 
looking, it would look much better shorter, wouldn몭t 
it, Harry?몯 

몮Oh 멪 I dunno 멪 몯 said Harry, slightly alarmed at 
being asked his opinion; he slid away from them in 
the direction of Fred and George, who were huddled 
in a corner with Mundungus. 

Mundungus stopped talking when he saw Harry, but 
Fred winked and beckoned Harry closer. 

몮It몭s okay,몯 he told Mundungus, 몮we can trust Harry, 
he몭s our financial backer.몯 

몮Look what Dung몭s gotten us,몯 said George, holding 
out his hand to Harry. It was full of what looked like 
shriveled black pods. A faint rattling noise was 
coming from them, even though they were completely 
stationary. 

몮Venomous Tentacula seeds,몯 said George. 몮We need 
them for the Skiving Snackboxes but they몭re a Class 
C Non-Tradeable Substance so we몭ve been having a 
bit of trouble getting hold of them.몯 

몮Ten Galleons the lot, then, Dung?몯 said Fred. 

몮Wiv all the trouble I went to to get 몭em?몯 said 
Mundungus, his saggy, bloodshot eyes stretching 
even wider. 몮I몭m sorry, lads, but I몭m not taking a Knut 
under twenty.몯 

몮Dung likes his little joke,몯 Fred said to Harry. 



| 220Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Yeah, his best one so far has been six Sickles for a 
bag of knarl quills,몯 said George. 

몮Be careful,몯 Harry warned them quietly. 

몮What?몯 said Fred. 몮Mum몭s busy cooing over Prefect 
Ron, we몭re okay.몯 

몮But Moody could have his eye on you,몯 Harry pointed 
out. 

Mundungus looked nervously over his shoulder. 

몮Good point, that,몯 he grunted. 몮All right, lads, ten it 
is, if you몭ll take 몭em quick.몯 

몮Cheers, Harry!몯 said Fred delightedly, when 
Mundungus had emptied his pockets into the twins몭 
outstretched hands and scuttled off toward the food. 
몮We몭d better get these upstairs...몯 

Harry watched them go, feeling slightly uneasy. It had 
just occurred to him that Mr. and Mrs. Weasley would 
want to know how Fred and George were financing 
their joke shop business when, as was inevitable, 
they finally found out about it. Giving the twins his 
Tri-wizard winnings had seemed a simple thing to do 
at the time, but what if it led to another family row 
and a Percy-like estrangement? Would Mrs. Weasley 
still feel that Harry was as good as her son if she 
found out he had made it possible for Fred and 
George to start a career she thought quite 
unsuitable? 

Standing where the twins had left him with nothing 
but a guilty weight in the pit of his stomach for 
company, Harry caught the sound of his own name. 
Kingsley Shacklebolt몭s deep voice was audible even 
over the surrounding chatter. 

| 221Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




"... why Dumbledore didn몭t make Potter a prefect?몯 
said Kingsley. 

몮He몭ll have had his reasons,몯 replied Lupin. 

몮But it would몭ve shown confidence in him. It몭s what 
I몭d몭ve done,몯 persisted Kingsley, 몮 몭specially with the 
Daily Prophet having a go at him every few days...몯 

Harry did not look around; he did not want Lupin or 
Kingsley to know he had heard. He followed 
Mundungus back toward the table, though not 
remotely hungry. His pleasure in the party had 
evaporated as quickly as it had come; he wished he 
were upstairs in bed. 

Mad-Eye Moody was sniffing at a chicken leg with 
what remained of his nose; evidently he could not 
detect any trace of poison, because he then tore a 
strip off it with his teeth. 

"... the handle몭s made of Spanish oak with anti-jinx 
varnish and in-built vibration control 멪 몯 Ron was 
saying to Tonks. 

Mrs. Weasley yawned widely. 

몮Well, I think I몭ll sort out that boggart before I turn 
in... Arthur, I don몭t want this lot up too late, all right? 
몭Night, Harry, dear.몯 

She left the kitchen. Harry set down his plate and 
wondered whether he could follow her without 
attracting attention. 

몮You all right, Potter?몯 grunted Moody. 

몮Yeah, fine,몯 lied Harry. 



| 222Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Moody took a swig from his hip flask, his electric blue 
eye staring sideways at Harry. 

몮Come here, I몭ve got something that might interest 
you,몯 he said. 

From an inner pocket of his robes Moody pulled a 
very tattered old Wizarding photograph. 

몮Original Order of the Phoenix,몯 growled Moody. 
몮Found it last night when I was looking for my spare 
Invisibility Cloak, seeing as Podmore hasn몭t had the 
manners to return my best one... Thought people 
might like to see it.몯 

Harry took the photograph. A small crowd of people, 
some waving at him, others lifting their glasses, 
looked back up at him. 

몮There몭s me,몯 said Moody unnecessarily, pointing at 
himself. The Moody in the picture was unmistakable, 
though his hair was slightly less gray and his nose 
was intact. 몮And there몭s Dumbledore beside me, 
Dedalus Diggle on the other side ... That몭s Marlene 
McKinnon, she was killed two weeks after this was 
taken, they got her whole family. That몭s Frank and 
Alice Longbottom 멪 몯 

Harry몭s stomach, already uncomfortable, clenched as 
he looked at Alice Longbottom; he knew her round, 
friendly face very well, even though he had never met 
her, because she was the image of her son, Neville. 

몮Poor devils,몯 growled Moody. 몮Better dead than what 
happened to them ... and that몭s Emmeline Vance, 
you몭ve met her, and that there몭s Lupin, obviously ... 
Benjy Fenwick, he copped it too, we only ever found 
bits of him ... shift aside there,몯 he added, poking the 
picture, and the little photographic people edged 
| 223Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




sideways, so that those who were partially obscured 
could move to the front. 



몮That몭s Edgar Bones ... brother of Amelia Bones, they 
got him and his family too, he was a great wizard ... 
Sturgis Podmore, blimey, he looks young ... Caradoc 
Dearborn, vanished six months after this, we never 
found his body ... Hagrid, of course, looks exactly the 
same as ever ... Elphias Doge, you몭ve met him, I몭d 
forgotten he used to wear that stupid hat . . . Gideon 
Prewett, it took five Death Eaters to kill him and his 
brother Fabian, they fought like heroes ... budge 
along, budge along ...몯 

The little people in the photograph jostled among 
themselves, and those hidden right at the back 
appeared at the forefront of the picture. 

몮That몭s Dumbledore몭s brother, Aberforth, only time I 
ever met him, strange bloke ... That몭s Dorcas 
Meadowes, Voldemort killed her personally ... Sirius, 
when he still had short hair ... and ... there you go, 
thought that would interest you!몯 

Harry몭s heart turned over. His mother and father were 
beaming up at him, sitting on either side of a small, 
watery-eyed man Harry recognized at once as 
Wormtail: He was the one who had betrayed their 
whereabouts to Voldemort and so helped bring about 
their deaths. 

몮Eh?몯 said Moody. 

Harry looked up into Moody몭s heavily scarred and 
pitted face. Evidently Moody was under the 
impression he had just given Harry a bit of a treat. 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry, attempting to grin again. 몮Er ... 
listen, I몭ve just remembered, I haven몭t packed my ...몯 

| 224Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He was spared the trouble of inventing an object he 
had not packed; Sirius had just said, 몮What몭s that 
you몭ve got there, Mad-Eye?몯 and Moody had turned 
toward him. Harry crossed the kitchen, slipped 
through the door and up the stairs before anyone 
could call him back. 

He did not know why he had received such a shock; 
he had seen his parents몭 pictures before, after all, and 
he had met Wormtail ... but to have them sprung on 
him like that, when he was least expecting it ... No 
one would like that, he thought angrily. . . 

And then, to see them surrounded by all those other 
happy faces ... Benjy Fenwick, who had been found in 
bits, and Gideon Prewett, who had died like a hero, 
and the Longbottoms, who had been tortured into 
madness ... all waving happily out of the photograph 
forevermore, not knowing that they were doomed... 
Well, Moody might find that interesting ... he, Harry, 
found it disturbing... 

Harry tiptoed up the stairs in the hall past the stuffed 
elf heads, glad to be on his own again, but as he 
approached the first landing he heard noises. 
Someone was sobbing in the drawing room. 

몮Hello?몯 Harry said. 

There was no answer but the sobbing continued. He 
climbed the remaining stairs two at a time, walked 
across the landing, and opened the drawing-room 
door. 

Someone was cowering against the dark wall, her 
wand in her hand, her whole body shaking with sobs. 
Sprawled on the dusty old carpet in a patch of 
moonlight, clearly dead, was Ron. 



| 225Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




All the air seemed to vanish from Harry몭s lungs; he 
felt as though he were falling through the floor; his 
brain turned icy cold 멪 Ron dead, no, it couldn몭t be 



But wait a moment, it couldn몭t be 멪 Ron was 
downstairs 멪 

몮Mrs. Weasley?몯 Harry croaked. 

몮 R-r-riddikulus\몯 Mrs. Weasley sobbed, pointing her 
shaking wand at Ron몭s body. 

Crack. 

Ron몭s body turned into Bill몭s, spread-eagled on his 
back, his eyes wide open and empty. Mrs. Weasley 
sobbed harder than ever. 

몮 R-riddikulus\몯 she sobbed again. 

Crack. 

Mr. Weasley몭s body replaced Bill몭s, his glasses askew, 
a trickle of blood running down his face. 

몮No!몯 Mrs. Weasley moaned. 몮No ... riddikulus\ 
Riddikulusl RIDDIKULUSl몯 

Crack. Dead twins. Crack. Dead Percy. Crack. Dead 
Harry ... 

몮Mrs. Weasley, just get out of here!몯 shouted Harry, 
staring down at his own dead body on the floor. 몮Let 
someone else 멪 몯 

몮What몭s going on?몯 



| 226Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Lupin had come running into the room, closely 
followed by Sirius, with Moody stumping along behind 
them. Lupin looked from Mrs. Weasley to the dead 
Harry on the floor and seemed to understand in an 
instant. Pulling out his own wand he said, very firmly 
and clearly, 몮 RiddikulusV몭 

Harry몭s body vanished. A silvery orb hung in the air 
over the spot where it had lain. Lupin waved his wand 
once more and the orb vanished in a puff of smoke. 

몮Oh 멪 oh 멪 oh!몯 gulped Mrs. Weasley, and she broke 
into a storm of crying, her face in her hands. 

몮Molly,몯 said Lupin bleakly, walking over to her, 

몮Molly, don몭t ...몯 

Next second she was sobbing her heart out on Lupin몭s 
shoulder. 

몮Molly, it was just a boggart,몯 he said soothingly, 
patting her on the head. 몮Just a stupid boggart ...몯 

몮I see them d-d-dead all the time!몯 Mrs. Weasley 
moaned into his shoulder. 몮All the t-t-time! I d-d- 
dream about it ...몯 

Sirius was staring at the patch of carpet where the 
boggart, pretending to be Harry몭s body, had lain. 
Moody was looking at Harry, who avoided his gaze. He 
had a funny feeling Moody몭s magical eye had followed 
him all the way out of the kitchen. 

몮D-d-don몭t tell Arthur,몯 Mrs. Weasley was gulping 
now, mopping her eyes frantically with her cuffs. 몮I d- 
d-don몭t want him to know... Being silly ...몯 

Lupin handed her a handkerchief and she blew her 
nose. 

| 227Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Harry, I몭m so sorry, what must you think of me?몯 she 
said shakily. 몮Not even able to get rid of a boggart ...몯 

몮Don몭t be stupid,몯 said Harry, trying to smile. 

몮I몭m just s-s-so worried,몯 she said, tears spilling out of 
her eyes again. 몮Half the f-f-family몭s in the Order, it몭ll 
b-b-be a miracle if we all come through this... and P- 
P-Percy몭s not talking to us... What if something d-d- 
dreadful happens and we had never m-m-made up? 
And what몭s going to happen if Arthur and I get killed, 
who몭s g-g-going to look after Ron and Ginny?몯 

몮Molly, that몭s enough,몯 said Lupin firmly. 몮This isn몭t 
like last time. The Order is better prepared, we몭ve got 
a head start, we know what Voldemort몭s up to 멪 몯 

Mrs. Weasley gave a little squeak of fright at the 
sound of the name. 

몮Oh, Molly, come on, it몭s about time you got used to 
hearing it 멪 look, I can몭t promise no one몭s going to get 
hurt, nobody can promise that, but we몭re much better 
off than we were last time, you weren몭t in the Order 
then, you don몭t understand, last time we were 
outnumbered twenty to one by the Death Eaters and 
they were picking us off one by one...몯 

Harry thought of the photograph again, of his parents몭 
beaming faces. He knew Moody was still watching 
him. 

몮Don몭t worry about Percy,몯 said Sirius abruptly. 몮He몭ll 
come round. It몭s a matter of time before Voldemort 
moves into the open; once he does, the whole 
Ministry몭s going to be begging us to forgive them. And 
I몭m not sure I몭ll be accepting their apology,몯 he added 
bitterly. 



| 228Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮And as for who몭s going to look after Ron and Ginny if 
you and Arthur died,몯 said Lupin, smiling slightly, 
몮what do you think we몭d do, let them starve?몯 

Mrs. Weasley smiled tremulously. 

몮Being silly,몯 she muttered again, mopping her eyes. 

But Harry, closing his bedroom door behind him 
some ten minutes later, could not think Mrs. Weasley 
silly. He could still see his parents beaming up at him 
from the tattered old photograph, unaware that their 
lives, like so many of those around them, were 
drawing to a close. The image of the boggart posing as 
the corpse of each member of Mrs. Weasley몭s family in 
turn kept flashing before his eyes. 

Without warning, the scar on his forehead seared 
with pain again and his stomach churned horribly. 

몮Cut it out,몯 he said firmly, rubbing the scar as the 
pain receded again. 

몮First sign of madness, talking to your own head,몯 
said a sly voice from the empty picture on the wall. 

Harry ignored it. He felt older than he had ever felt in 
his life, and it seemed extraordinary to him that 
barely an hour ago he had been worried about a joke 
shop and who had gotten a prefect몭s badge. 



| 229Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




10 




LUNA LOVEGOOD 

Harry had a troubled night몭s sleep. His parents wove 
in and out of his dreams, never speaking; Mrs. 
Weasley sobbed over Kreacher몭s dead body watched 
by Ron and Hermione, who were wearing crowns, and 
yet again Harry found himself walking down a 
corridor ending in a locked door. He awoke abruptly 
with his scar prickling to find Ron already dressed 
and talking to him. 

"... better hurry up, Mum몭s going ballistic, she says 
we몭re going to miss the train...몯 

There was a lot of commotion in the house. From 
what he heard as he dressed at top speed, Harry 
gathered that Fred and George had bewitched their 
trunks to fly downstairs to save the bother of carrying 
them, with the result that they had hurtled straight 
into Ginny and knocked her down two flights of stairs 
into the hall; Mrs. Black and Mrs. Weasley were both 
screaming at the top of their voices. 



| 230Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



COULD HAVE DONE HER A SERIOUS INJURY, 
YOU IDIOTS 멪 몯 

FILTHY HALF-BREEDS, BESMIRCHING THE 
HOUSE OF MY FATHERS 멪 몯 

Hermione came hurrying into the room looking 
flustered just as Harry was putting on his trainers; 
Hedwig was swaying on her shoulder, and she was 
carrying a squirming Crookshanks in her arms. 

몮Mum and Dad just sent Hedwig back몯 멪 the owl 
fluttered obligingly over and perched on top of her 
cage 멪 몮are you ready yet?몯 

몮Nearly 멪 Ginny all right?몯 Harry asked, shoving on 
his glasses. 

몮Mrs. Weasley몭s patched her up,몯 said Hermione. 몮But 
now Mad-Eye몭s complaining that we can몭t leave unless 
Sturgis Podmore몭s here, otherwise the guard will be 
one short.몯 

몮Guard?몯 said Harry. 몮We have to go to King몭s Cross 
with a guard?몯 

몮 You have to go to King몭s Cross with a guard,몯 
Hermione corrected him. 

몮Why?몯 said Harry irritably. 몮I thought Voldemort was 
supposed to be lying low, or are you telling me he몭s 
going to jump out from behind a dustbin to try and do 
me in?몯 

몮I don몭t know, it몭s just what Mad-Eye says,몯 said 
Hermione distractedly, looking at her watch. 몮But if 
we don몭t leave soon we몭re definitely going to miss the 
train...몯 



| 231Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮WILL YOU LOT GET DOWN HERE NOW, PLEASE!몯 
Mrs. Weasley bellowed and Hermione jumped as 
though scalded and hurried out of the room. Harry 
seized Hedwig, stuffed her unceremoniously into her 
cage, and set off downstairs after Hermione, dragging 
his trunk. 

Mrs. Black몭s portrait was howling with rage but 
nobody was bothering to close the curtains over her; 
all the noise in the hall was bound to rouse her again 
anyway. 

몮Harry, you몭re to come with me and Tonks,몯 shouted 
Mrs. Weasley over the repeated screeches of 
몮MUDBLOODSl SCUM CREATURES OF DIRV.몯 몮Leave 
your trunk and your owl, Alastor몭s going to deal with 
the luggage... Oh, for heaven몭s sake, Sirius, 
Dumbledore said no!몯 

A bearlike black dog had appeared at Harry몭s side as 
Harry clambered over the various trunks cluttering 
the hall to get to Mrs. Weasley. 

몮Oh honestly ...몯 said Mrs. Weasley despairingly, 
몮well, on your own head be it!몯 

She wrenched open the front door and stepped out 
into the weak September sunlight. Harry and the dog 
followed her. The door slammed behind them and 
Mrs. Black몭s screeches were cut off instantly. 

몮Where몭s Tonks?몯 Harry said, looking around as they 
went down the stone steps of number twelve, which 
vanished the moment they reached the pavement. 

몮She몭s waiting for us just up here,몯 said Mrs. Weasley 
stiffly, averting her eyes from the lolloping black dog 
beside Harry. 



| 232Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




An old woman greeted them on the corner. She had 
tightly curled gray hair and wore a purple hat shaped 
like a porkpie. 

몮Wotcher, Harry,몯 she said, winking. 몮Better hurry up, 
hadn몭t we, Molly?몯 she added, checking her watch. 

몮I know, I know,몯 moaned Mrs. Weasley, lengthening 
her stride, 몮but Mad-Eye wanted to wait for Sturgis... 
If only Arthur could have got us cars from the 
Ministry again ... but Fudge wouldn몭t let him borrow 
so much as an empty ink bottle these days... How 
Muggles can stand traveling without magic ...몯 

But the great black dog gave a joyful bark and 
gamboled around them, snapping at pigeons, and 
chasing its own tail. Harry couldn몭t help laughing. 
Sirius had been trapped inside for a very long time. 
Mrs. Weasley pursed her lips in an almost Aunt 
Petunia-ish way. 

It took them twenty minutes to reach King몭s Cross by 
foot and nothing more eventful happened during that 
time than Sirius scaring a couple of cats for Harry몭s 
entertainment. Once inside the station they lingered 
casually beside the barrier between platforms nine 
and ten until the coast was clear, then each of them 
leaned against it in turn and fell easily through onto 
platform nine and three quarters, where the Hogwarts 
Express stood belching sooty steam over a platform 
packed with departing students and their families. 
Harry inhaled the familiar smell and felt his spirits 
soar. . . He was really going back. . . 

몮I hope the others make it in time,몯 said Mrs. Weasley 
anxiously, staring behind her at the wrought-iron 
arch spanning the platform, through which new 
arrivals would come. 



| 233Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Nice dog, Harry!몯 called a tall boy with dreadlocks. 

몮Thanks, Lee,몯 said Harry, grinning, as Sirius wagged 
his tail frantically. 

몮Oh good,몯 said Mrs. Weasley, sounding relieved, 
몮here몭s Alas tor with the luggage, look ...몯 

A porter몭s cap pulled low over his mismatched eyes, 
Moody came limping through the archway pushing a 
cart full of their trunks. 

몮All okay,몯 he muttered to Mrs. Weasley and Tonks. 
몮Don몭t think we were followed...몯 

Seconds later, Mr. Weasley emerged onto the platform 
with Ron and Hermione. They had almost unloaded 
Moody몭s luggage cart when Fred, George, and Ginny 
turned up with Lupin. 

몮No trouble?몯 growled Moody. 

몮Nothing,몯 said Lupin. 

몮I몭ll still be reporting Sturgis to Dumbledore,몯 said 
Moody. 몮That몭s the second time he몭s not turned up in 
a week. Getting as unreliable as Mundungus.몯 

몮Well, look after yourselves,몯 said Lupin, shaking 
hands all round. He reached Harry last and gave him 
a clap on the shoulder. 몮You too, Harry. Be careful.몯 

몮Yeah, keep your head down and your eyes peeled,몯 
said Moody, shaking Harry몭s hand too. 몮And don몭t 
forget, all of you 멪 careful what you put in writing. If 
in doubt, don몭t put it in a letter at all.몯 



| 234Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮It몭s been great meeting all of you,몯 said Tonks, 
hugging Hermione and Ginny. 몮We몭ll see you soon, I 
expect.몯 

A warning whistle sounded; the students still on the 
platform started hurrying onto the train. 

몮Quick, quick,몯 said Mrs. Weasley distractedly, 
hugging them at random and catching Harry twice. 
몮Write... Be good... If you몭ve forgotten anything we몭ll 
send it on... Onto the train, now, hurry...몯 

For one brief moment, the great black dog reared onto 
its hind legs and placed its front paws on Harry몭s 
shoulders, but Mrs. Weasley shoved Harry away 
toward the train door hissing, 몮For heaven몭s sake act 
more like a dog, Sirius!몯 

몮See you!몯 Harry called out of the open window as the 
train began to move, while Ron, Hermione, and Ginny 
waved beside him. The figures of Tonks, Lupin, 

Moody, and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley shrank rapidly but 
the black dog was bounding alongside the window, 
wagging its tail; blurred people on the platform were 
laughing to see it chasing the train, and then they 
turned the corner, and Sirius was gone. 

몮He shouldn몭t have come with us,몯 said Hermione in a 
worried voice. 

몮Oh lighten up,몯 said Ron, 몮he hasn몭t seen daylight for 
months, poor bloke.몯 

몮Well,몯 said Fred, clapping his hands together, 몮can몭t 
stand around chatting all day, we몭ve got business to 
discuss with Lee. See you later,몯 and he and George 
disappeared down the corridor to the right. 



| 235Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The train was gathering still more speed, so that the 
houses outside the window flashed past and they 
swayed where they stood. 

몮Shall we go and find a compartment, then?몯 Harry 
asked Ron and Hermione. 

Ron and Hermione exchanged looks. 

몮Er,몯 said Ron. 

몮We몭re 멪 well 멪 Ron and I are supposed to go into 
the prefect carriage,몯 Hermione said awkwardly. 

Ron wasn몭t looking at Harry; he seemed to have 
become intensely interested in the fingernails on his 
left hand. 

몮Oh,몯 said Harry. 몮Right. Fine.몯 

몮I don몭t think we몭ll have to stay there all journey,몯 said 
Hermione quickly. 몮Our letters said we just get 
instructions from the Head Boy and Girl and then 
patrol the corridors from time to time.몯 

몮Fine,몯 said Harry again. 몮Well, I-I might see you later, 
then.몯 

몮Yeah, definitely,몯 said Ron, casting a shifty, anxious 
look at Harry. 몮It몭s a pain having to go down there, I몭d 
rather 멪 but we have to 멪 I mean, I몭m not enjoying 
it, I몭m not Percy,몯 he finished defiantly. 

몮I know you몭re not,몯 said Harry and he grinned. But 
as Hermione and Ron dragged their trunks, 
Crookshanks, and a caged Pigwidgeon off toward the 
engine end of the train, Harry felt an odd sense of 
loss. He had never traveled on the Hogwarts Express 
without Ron. 

| 236Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Come on,몯 Ginny told him, 몮if we get a move on we몭ll 
be able to save them places.몯 

몮Right,몯 said Harry, picking up Hedwig몭s cage in one 
hand and the handle of his trunk in the other. They 
struggled off down the corridor, peering through the 
glass-paneled doors into the compartments they 
passed, which were already full. Harry could not help 
noticing that a lot of people stared back at him with 
great interest and that several of them nudged their 
neighbors and pointed him out. After he had met this 
behavior in five consecutive carriages he remembered 
that the Daily Prophet had been telling its readers all 
summer what a lying show-off he was. He wondered 
bleakly whether the people now staring and 
whispering believed the stories. 

In the very last carriage they met Neville Longbottom, 
Harry몭s fellow fifth-year Gryffindor, his round face 
shining with the effort of pulling his trunk along and 
maintaining a one-handed grip on his struggling toad, 
Trevor. 

몮Hi, Harry,몯 he panted. 몮Hi, Ginny... Everywhere 몭s 
full... I can몭t find a seat...몯 

몮What are you talking about?몯 said Ginny, who had 
squeezed past Neville to peer into the compartment 
behind him. 몮There몭s room in this one, there몭s only 
Loony Lovegood in here 멪 몯 

Neville mumbled something about not wanting to 
disturb anyone. 

몮Don몭t be silly,몯 said Ginny, laughing, 몮she몭s all right.몯 

She slid the door open and pulled her trunk inside it. 
Harry and Neville followed. 



| 237Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Hi, Luna,몯 said Ginny. 몮Is it okay if we take these 
seats?몯 

The girl beside the window looked up. She had 
straggly, waist-length, dirty-blond hair, very pale 
eyebrows, and protuberant eyes that gave her a 
permanently surprised look. Harry knew at once why 
Neville had chosen to pass this compartment by. The 
girl gave off an aura of distinct dottiness. Perhaps it 
was the fact that she had stuck her wand behind her 
left ear for safekeeping, or that she had chosen to 
wear a necklace of butterbeer caps, or that she was 
reading a magazine upside down. Her eyes ranged 
over Neville and came to rest on Harry. She nodded. 

몮Thanks,몯 said Ginny, smiling at her. 

Harry and Neville stowed the three trunks and 
Hedwig몭s cage in the luggage rack and sat down. The 
girl called Luna watched them over her upside-down 
magazine, which was called The Quibbler. She did not 
seem to need to blink as much as normal humans. 

She stared and stared at Harry, who had taken the 
seat opposite her and now wished he had not. 

몮Had a good summer, Luna?몯 Ginny asked. 

몮Yes,몯 said Luna dreamily, without taking her eyes off 
Harry. 몮Yes, it was quite enjoyable, you know. You몭re 
Harry Potter,몯 she added. 

몮I know I am,몯 said Harry. 

Neville chuckled. Luna turned her pale eyes upon him 
instead. 

몮And I don몭t know who you are.몯 

몮I몭m nobody,몯 said Neville hurriedly. 

| 238Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮No you몭re not,몯 said Ginny sharply. 몮Neville 
Longbottom 멪 Luna Lovegood. Luna몭s in my year, but 
in Ravenclaw.몯 

몮 Wit beyond measure is man몭s greatest treasure,몯 said 
Luna in a singsong voice. 

She raised her upside-down magazine high enough to 
hide her face and fell silent. Harry and Neville looked 
at each other with their eyebrows raised. Ginny 
suppressed a giggle. 

The train rattled onward, speeding them out into 
open country. It was an odd, unsettled sort of day; 
one moment the carriage was full of sunlight and the 
next they were passing beneath ominously gray 
clouds. 

몮Guess what I got for my birthday?몯 said Neville. 

몮Another Remembrall?몯 said Harry, remembering the 
marblelike device Neville몭s grandmother had sent him 
in an effort to improve his abysmal memory. 

몮No,몯 said Neville, 몮I could do with one, though, I lost 
the old one ages ago... No, look at this...몯 

He dug the hand that was not keeping a firm grip on 
Trevor into his schoolbag and after a little bit of 
rummaging pulled out what appeared to be a small 
gray cactus in a pot, except that it was covered with 
what looked like boils rather than spines. 

몮Mimbulus mimbletonia,몯 he said proudly. 

Harry stared at the thing. It was pulsating slightly, 
giving it the rather sinister look of some diseased 
internal organ. 



| 239Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮It몭s really, really rare,몯 said Neville, beaming. 몮I don몭t 
know if there몭s one in the greenhouse at Hogwarts, 
even. I can몭t wait to show it to Professor Sprout. My 
great-uncle Algie got it for me in Assyria. I몭m going to 
see if I can breed from it.몯 

Harry knew that Neville몭s favorite subject was 
Herbology, but for the life of him he could not see 
what he would want with this stunted little plant. 

몮Does it 멪 er 멪 do anything?몯 he asked. 

몮Loads of stuff!몯 said Neville proudly. 몮It몭s got an 
amazing defensive mechanism 멪 hold Trevor for 
me...몯 

He dumped the toad into Harry몭s lap and took a quill 
from his schoolbag. Luna Lovegood몭s popping eyes 
appeared over the top of her upside-down magazine 
again, watching what Neville was doing. Neville held 
the Mimbulus mimbletonia up to his eyes, his tongue 
between his teeth, chose his spot, and gave the plant 
a sharp prod with the tip of his quill. 

Liquid squirted from every boil on the plant, thick, 
stinking, dark-green jets of it; they hit the ceiling, the 
windows, and spattered Luna Lovegood몭s magazine. 
Ginny, who had flung her arms up in front of her face 
just in time, merely looked as though she was 
wearing a slimy green hat, but Harry, whose hands 
had been busy preventing the escape of Trevor, 
received a face full. It smelled like rancid manure. 

Neville, whose face and torso were also drenched, 
shook his head to get the worst out of his eyes. 

몮S-sorry,몯 he gasped. 몮I haven몭t tried that before... 
Didn몭t realize it would be quite so ... Don몭t worry, 



| 240Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




though, Stinksap몭s not poisonous,몯 he added 
nervously, as Harry spat a mouthful onto the floor. 



At that precise moment the door of their compartment 
slid open. 

몮Oh ... hello, Harry,몯 said a nervous voice. 몮Um ... bad 
time?몯 

Harry wiped the lenses of his glasses with his Trevor- 
free hand. A very pretty girl with long, shiny black 
hair was standing in the doorway smiling at him: Cho 
Chang, the Seeker on the Ravenclaw Quidditch team. 

몮Oh ... hi,몯 said Harry blankly. 

몮Um ...몯 said Cho. 몮Well ... just thought I몭d say hello 
... 몭bye then.몯 

She closed the door again, rather pink in the face, 
and departed. Harry slumped back in his seat and 
groaned. He would have liked Cho to discover him 
sitting with a group of very cool people laughing their 
heads off at a joke he had just told; he would not 
have chosen to be sitting with Neville and Loony 
Lovegood, clutching a toad and dripping in Stinksap. 

몮Never mind,몯 said Ginny bracingly. 몮Look, we can get 
rid of all this easily.몯 She pulled out her wand. 

몮 Scour gif yY몭 

The Stinksap vanished. 

몮Sorry,몯 said Neville again, in a small voice. 

Ron and Hermione did not turn up for nearly an 
hour, by which time the food trolley had already gone 
by. Harry, Ginny, and Neville had finished their 
Pumpkin Pasties and were busy swapping Chocolate 

| 241Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Frog cards when the compartment door slid open and 
they walked in, accompanied by Crookshanks and a 
shrilly hooting Pigwidgeon in his cage. 

몮I몭m starving,몯 said Ron, stowing Pigwidgeon next to 
Hedwig, grabbing a Chocolate Frog from Harry and 
throwing himself into the seat next to him. He ripped 
open the wrapper, bit off the Frog몭s head, and leaned 
back with his eyes closed as though he had had a 
very exhausting morning. 

몮Well, there are two fifth-year prefects from each 
House,몯 said Hermione, looking thoroughly 
disgruntled as she took her seat. 몮Boy and girl from 
each.몯 

몮And guess who몭s a Slytherin prefect?몯 said Ron, still 
with his eyes closed. 

몮Malfoy,몯 replied Harry at once, his worst fear 
confirmed. 

몮 몭Course,몯 said Ron bitterly, stuffing the rest of the 
Frog into his mouth and taking another. 

몮And that complete cow Pansy Parkinson,몯 said 
Hermione viciously. 몮How she got to be a prefect when 
she몭s thicker than a concussed troll ...몯 

몮Who몭s Hufflepuff?몯 Harry asked. 

몮Ernie Macmillan and Hannah Abbott,몯 said Ron 
thickly. 

몮And Anthony Goldstein and Padma Patil for 
Ravenclaw,몯 said Hermione. 

몮You went to the Yule Ball with Padma Patil,몯 said a 
vague voice. 

| 242Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Everyone turned to look at Luna Lovegood, who was 
gazing un-blinkingly at Ron over the top of The 
Quibbler. He swallowed his mouthful of Frog. 

몮Yeah, I know I did,몯 he said, looking mildly 
surprised. 

몮She didn몭t enjoy it very much,몯 Luna informed him. 
몮She doesn몭t think you treated her very well, because 
you wouldn몭t dance with her. I don몭t think I몭d have 
minded,몯 she added thoughtfully, 몮I don몭t like dancing 
very much.몯 

She retreated behind The Quibbler again. Ron stared 
at the cover with his mouth hanging open for a few 
seconds, then looked around at Ginny for some kind 
of explanation, but Ginny had stuffed her knuckles in 
her mouth to stop herself giggling. Ron shook his 
head, bemused, then checked his watch. 

몮We몭re supposed to patrol the corridors every so 
often,몯 he told Harry and Neville, 몮and we can give out 
punishments if people are misbehaving. I can몭t wait to 
get Crabbe and Goyle for something...몯 

몮You몭re not supposed to abuse your position, Ron!몯 
said Hermione sharply. 

몮Yeah, right, because Malfoy won몭t abuse it at all,몯 
said Ron sarcastically. 

몮So you몭re going to descend to his level?몯 

몮No, I몭m just going to make sure I get his mates before 
he gets mine.몯 

몮For heaven몭s sake, Ron 멪 몯 



| 243Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I몭ll make Goyle do lines, it몭ll kill him, he hates 
writing,몯 said Ron happily. He lowered his voice to 
Goyle 몭s low grunt and, screwing up his face in a look 
of pained concentration, mimed writing in midair. 몮I 
... must ... not ... look ... like ... a ... baboon몭s ... 
backside...몯 

Everyone laughed, but nobody laughed harder than 
Luna Lovegood. She let out a scream of mirth that 
caused Hedwig to wake up and flap her wings 
indignantly and Crookshanks to leap up into the 
luggage rack, hissing. She laughed so hard that her 
magazine slipped out of her grasp, slid down her legs, 
and onto the floor. 

몮That was funny\몯 

Her prominent eyes swam with tears as she gasped 
for breath, staring at Ron. Utterly nonplussed, he 
looked around at the others, who were now laughing 
at the expression on Ron몭s face and at the ludicrously 
prolonged laughter of Luna Lovegood, who was 
rocking backward and forward, clutching her sides. 

몮Are you taking the mickey?몯 said Ron, frowning at 
her. 

몮Baboon몭s ... backside!몯 she choked, holding her ribs. 

Everyone else was watching Luna laughing, but 
Harry, glancing at the magazine on the floor, noticed 
something that made him dive for it. Upside down it 
had been hard to tell what the picture on the front 
was, but Harry now realized it was a fairly bad 
cartoon of Cornelius Fudge; Harry only recognized 
him because of the lime-green bowler hat. One of 
Fudge몭s hands was clenched around a bag of gold; the 
other hand was throttling a goblin. The cartoon was 
captioned: How Far Will Fudge Go to Gain Gringotts? 
| 244Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Beneath this were listed the titles of other articles 
inside the magazine. 

CORRUPTION IN THE QUIDDITCH LEAGUE: 

How the Tornados Are Taking Control 
SECRETS OF THE ANCIENT RUNES REVEALED 
SIRIUS BLACK: Villain or Victim? 

몮Can I have a look at this?몯 Harry asked Luna eagerly. 

She nodded, still gazing at Ron, breathless with 
laughter. 

Harry opened the magazine and scanned the index; 
until this moment he had completely forgotten the 
magazine Kingsley had handed Mr. Weasley to give to 
Sirius, but it must have been this edition of The 
Quibbler. He found the page and turned excitedly to 
the article. 

This too was illustrated by a rather bad cartoon; in 
fact, Harry would not have known it was supposed to 
be Sirius if it hadn몭t been captioned. Sirius was 
standing on a pile of human bones with his wand out. 
The headline on the article read: 

SIRIUS - Black As He몭s Painted? 

Notorious Mass Murderer OR Innocent Singing 
Sensation? 

Harry had to read this sentence several times before 
he was convinced that he had not misunderstood it. 
Since when had Sirius been a singing sensation? 



| 245Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




For fourteen years Sirius Black has been believed 
guilty of the mass murder of twelve innocent Muggles 
and one wizard. Black몭s audacious escape from 
Azkaban two years ago has led to the widest manhunt 
ever conducted by the Ministry of Magic. None of us 
has ever questioned that he deserves to be recaptured 
and handed back to the dementors. 

BUT DOES HE? 

Startling new evidence has recently come to light that 
Sirius Black may not have committed the crimes for 
which he was sent to Azkaban. In fact, says Doris 
Purkiss, of 18 Acanthia Way, Little Norton, Black may 
not even have been present at the killings. 

몮What people don몭t realize is that Sirius Black is a 
false name, 몯 says Mrs. Purkiss. 몮The man people 
believe to be Sirius Black is actually Stubby 
Boardman, lead singer of the popular singing group 
The Hobgoblins, who retired from public life after being 
struck in the ear by a turnip at a concert in Little 
Norton Church Hall nearly fifteen years ago. I 
recognized him the moment I saw his picture in the 
paper. Now, Stubby couldn몭t possibly have committed 
those crimes, because on the day in question he 
happened to be enjoying a romantic candlelit dinner 
with me. I have written to the Minister of Magic and am 
expecting him to give Stubby, alias Sirius, a full pardon 
any day now. 몯 

Harry finished reading and stared at the page in 
disbelief. Perhaps it was a joke, he thought, perhaps 
the magazine often printed spoof items. He flicked 
back a few pages and found the piece on Fudge. 

Cornelius Fudge, the Minister of Magic, denied that 
he had any plans to take over the running of the 
Wizarding Bank, Gringotts, when he was elected 

| 246Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Minister of Magic five years ago. Fudge has always 
insisted that he wants nothing more than to 
몮cooperate peacefully몯 with the guardians of our gold. 

BUT DOES HE? 

Sources close to the Minister have recently disclosed 
that Fudge몭s dearest ambition is to seize control of the 
goblin gold supplies and that he will not hesitate to 
use force if need be. 

몮It wouldn몭t be the first time, either,몯 said a Ministry 
insider. 몮Cornelius 몬Goblin-Crusher몭 Fudge, that몭s what 
his friends call him, if you could hear him when he 
thinks no one몭s listening, oh, he몭s always talking about 
the goblins he몭s had done in; he몭s had them drowned, 
he몭s had them dropped off buildings, he몭s had them 
poisoned, he몭s had them cooked in pies...몯 



Harry did not read any further. Fudge might have 
many faults but Harry found it extremely hard to 
imagine him ordering goblins to be cooked in pies. He 
flicked through the rest of the magazine. Pausing 
every few pages he read an accusation that the 
Tutshill Tornados were winning the Quidditch League 
by a combination of blackmail, illegal broom- 
tampering, and torture; an interview with a wizard 
who claimed to have flown to the moon on a 
Cleansweep Six and brought back a bag of moon frogs 
to prove it; and an article on ancient runes, which at 
least explained why Luna had been reading The 
Quibbler upside down. According to the magazine, if 
you turned the runes on their heads they revealed a 
spell to make your enemy몭s ears turn into kumquats. 
In fact, compared to the rest of the articles in The 
Quibbler, the suggestion that Sirius might really be 
the lead singer of The Hobgoblins was quite sensible. 
| 247Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Anything good in there?몯 asked Ron as Harry closed 
the magazine. 

몮Of course not,몯 said Hermione scathingly, before 
Harry could answer, 몮 The Quibbler몭s rubbish, 
everyone knows that.몯 

몮Excuse me,몯 said Luna; her voice had suddenly lost 
its dreamy quality. 몮My father몭s the editor.몯 

몮I 멪 oh,몯 said Hermione, looking embarrassed. 몮Well 
... it몭s got some interesting ... I mean, it몭s quite ...몯 

몮I몭ll have it back, thank you,몯 said Luna coldly, and 
leaning forward she snatched it out of Harry몭s hands. 
Rifling through it to page fifty-seven, she turned it 
resolutely upside down again and disappeared behind 
it, just as the compartment door opened for the third 
time. Harry looked around; he had expected this, but 
that did not make the sight of Draco Malfoy smirking 
at him from between his cronies Crabbe and Goyle 
any more enjoyable. 

몮What?몯 he said aggressively, before Malfoy could 
open his mouth. 

몮Manners, Potter, or I몭ll have to give you a detention,몯 
drawled Malfoy, whose sleek blond hair and pointed 
chin were just like his father몭s. 몮You see, I, unlike 
you, have been made a prefect, which means that I, 
unlike you, have the power to hand out 
punishments.몯 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry, 몮but you, unlike me, are a git, so 
get out and leave us alone.몯 

Ron, Hermione, Ginny, and Neville laughed. Malfoy몭s 
lip curled. 



| 248Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Tell me, how does it feel being second-best to 
Weasley, Potter?몯 he asked. 

몮Shut up, Malfoy,몯 said Hermione sharply. 

몮I seem to have touched a nerve,몯 said Malfoy, 
smirking. 몮Well, just watch yourself, Potter, because 
I몭ll be dogging your footsteps in case you step out of 
line.몯 

몮Get out!몯 said Hermione, standing up. 

Sniggering, Malfoy gave Harry a last malicious look 
and departed, Crabbe and Goyle lumbering in his 
wake. Hermione slammed the compartment door 
behind them and turned to look at Harry, who knew 
at once that she, like him, had registered what Malfoy 
had said and been just as unnerved by it. 

몮Chuck us another Frog,몯 said Ron, who had clearly 
noticed nothing. 

Harry could not talk freely in front of Neville and 
Luna. He exchanged another nervous look with 
Hermione and then stared out of the window. 

He had thought Sirius coming with him to the station 
was a bit of a laugh, but suddenly it seemed reckless, 
if not downright dangerous... Hermione had been 
right... Sirius should not have come. What if Mr. 
Malfoy had noticed the black dog and told Draco, 
what if he had deduced that the Weasleys, Lupin, 
Tonks, and Moody knew where Sirius was hiding? Or 
had Malfoy몭s use of the word 몮dogging몯 been a 
coincidence? 

The weather remained undecided as they traveled 
farther and farther north. Rain spattered the windows 
in a halfhearted way, then the sun put in a feeble 

| 249Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




appearance before clouds drifted over it once more. 
When darkness fell and lamps came on inside the 
carriages, Luna rolled up The Quibbler, put it 
carefully away in her bag, and took to staring at 
everyone in the compartment instead. 

Harry was sitting with his forehead pressed against 
the train window, trying to get a first distant glimpse 
of Hogwarts, but it was a moonless night and the 
rain-streaked window was grimy. 

몮We몭d better change,몯 said Hermione at last. She and 
Ron pinned their prefect badges carefully to their 
chests. Harry saw Ron checking how it looked in the 
black window. 

At last the train began to slow down and they heard 
the usual racket up and down it as everybody 
scrambled to get their luggage and pets assembled, 
ready for departure. Ron and Hermione were 
supposed to supervise all this; they disappeared from 
the carriage again, leaving Harry and the others to 
look after Crookshanks and Pigwidgeon. 

몮I몭ll carry that owl, if you like,몯 said Luna to Harry, 
reaching out for Pigwidgeon as Neville stowed Trevor 
carefully in an inside pocket. 

몮Oh 멪 er 멪 thanks,몯 said Harry, handing her the 
cage and hoisting Hedwig몭s more securely into his 
arms. 

They shuffled out of the compartment feeling the first 
sting of the night air on their faces as they joined the 
crowd in the corridor. Slowly they moved toward the 
doors. Harry could smell the pine trees that lined the 
path down to the lake. He stepped down onto the 
platform and looked around, listening for the familiar 
call of 몮Firs몭 years over here ... firs몭 years ...몯 

| 250Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




But it did not come. Instead a quite different voice, a 
brisk female one, was calling, 몮First years line up over 
here, please! All first years to me!몯 

A lantern came swinging toward Harry and by its light 
he saw the prominent chin and severe haircut of 
Professor Grubbly-Plank, the witch who had taken 
over Hagrid 몭s Care of Magical Creatures lessons for a 
while the previous year. 

몮Where몭s Hagrid?몯 he said out loud. 

몮I don몭t know,몯 said Ginny, 몮but we몭d better get out of 
the way, we몭re blocking the door.몯 

몮Oh yeah ...몯 

Harry and Ginny became separated as they moved off 
along the platform and out through the station. 
Jostled by the crowd, Harry squinted through the 
darkness for a glimpse of Hagrid; he had to be here, 
Harry had been relying on it 멪 seeing Hagrid again 
had been one of the things to which he had been 
looking forward most. But there was no sign of him at 
all. 

He can몭t have left, Harry told himself as he shuffled 
slowly through a narrow doorway onto the road 
outside with the rest of the crowd. He몭s just got a cold 
or something... 

He looked around for Ron or Hermione, wanting to 
know what they thought about the reappearance of 
Professor Grubbly-Plank, but neither of them was 
anywhere near him, so he allowed himself to be 
shunted forward onto the dark rain-washed road 
outside Hogsmeade station. 



| 251Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Here stood the hundred or so horseless stagecoaches 
that always took the students above first year up to 
the castle. Harry glanced quickly at them, turned 
away to keep a lookout for Ron and Hermione, then 
did a double take. 

The coaches were no longer horseless. There were 
creatures standing between the carriage shafts; if he 
had had to give them a name, he supposed he would 
have called them horses, though there was something 
reptilian about them, too. They were completely 
fleshless, their black coats clinging to their skeletons, 
of which every bone was visible. Their heads were 
dragonish, and their pupil-less eyes white and 
staring. Wings sprouted from each wither 멪 vast, 
black leathery wings that looked as though they 
ought to belong to giant bats. Standing still and quiet 
in the gloom, the creatures looked eerie and sinister. 
Harry could not understand why the coaches were 
being pulled by these horrible horses when they were 
quite capable of moving along by themselves. 

몮Where몭s Pig?몯 said Ron몭s voice, right behind Harry. 

몮That Luna girl was carrying him,몯 said Harry, 
turning quickly, eager to consult Ron about Hagrid. 
몮Where d몭you reckon 멪 몯 

몮 멪 Hagrid is? I dunno,몯 said Ron, sounding worried. 
몮He몭d better be okay...몯 

A short distance away, Draco Malfoy, followed by a 
small gang of cronies including Crabbe, Goyle, and 
Pansy Parkinson, was pushing some timid-looking 
second years out of the way so that they could get a 
coach to themselves. Seconds later Hermione emerged 
panting from the crowd. 



| 252Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Malfoy was being absolutely foul to a first year back 
there, I swear I몭m going to report him, he몭s only had 
his badge three minutes and he몭s using it to bully 
people worse than ever... Where몭s Crookshanks?몯 

몮Ginny몭s got him,몯 said Harry. 몮There she is...몯 

Ginny had just emerged from the crowd, clutching a 
squirming Crookshanks. 

몮Thanks,몯 said Hermione, relieving Ginny of the cat. 
몮Come on, let몭s get a carriage together before they all 
fillup...몯 

몮I haven몭t got Pig yet!몯 Ron said, but Hermione was 
already heading off toward the nearest unoccupied 
coach. Harry remained behind with Ron. 

몮What are those things, d몭you reckon?몯 he asked Ron, 
nodding at the horrible horses as the other students 
surged past them. 

몮What things?몯 

몮Those horse 멪 몯 

Luna appeared holding Pigwidgeon몭s cage in her 
arms; the tiny owl was twittering excitedly as usual. 

몮Here you are,몯 she said. 몮He몭s a sweet little owl, isn몭t 
he?몯 

몮Er ... yeah ... He몭s all right,몯 said Ron gruffly. 몮Well, 
come on then, let몭s get in... what were you saying, 
Harry?몯 

몮I was saying, what are those horse things?몯 Harry 
said, as he, Ron, and Luna made for the carriage in 
which Hermione and Ginny were already sitting. 

| 253Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮What horse things?몯 



몮The horse things pulling the carriages!몯 said Harry 
impatiently; they were, after all, about three feet from 
the nearest one; it was watching them with empty 
white eyes. Ron, however, gave Harry a perplexed 
look. 

몮What are you talking about?몯 

몮I몭m talking about 멪 look!몯 

Harry grabbed Ron몭s arm and wheeled him about so 
that he was face-to-face with the winged horse. Ron 
stared straight at it for a second, then looked back at 
Harry. 

몮What am I supposed to be looking at?몯 

몮At the 멪 there, between the shafts! Harnessed to the 
coach! It몭s right there in front 멪 몯 

But as Ron continued to look bemused, a strange 
thought occurred to Harry. 

몮Can몭t ... can몭t you see them?몯 

몮See what?몯 

몮Can몭t you see what몭s pulling the carriages?몯 

Ron looked seriously alarmed now. 

몮Are you feeling all right, Harry?몯 

몮I ... yeah ...몯 

Harry felt utterly bewildered. The horse was there in 
front of him, gleaming solidly in the dim light issuing 

| 254Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




from the station windows behind them, vapor rising 
from its nostrils in the chilly night air. Yet unless Ron 
was faking 멪 and it was a very feeble joke if he was 멪 
Ron could not see it at all. 

몮Shall we get in, then?몯 said Ron uncertainly, looking 
at Harry as though worried about him. 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry. 몮Yeah, go on ...몯 

몮It몭s all right,몯 said a dreamy voice from beside Harry 
as Ron vanished into the coach몭s dark interior. 

몮You몭re not going mad or anything. I can see them 
too.몯 

몮Can you?몯 said Harry desperately, turning to Luna. 
He could see the bat-winged horses reflected in her 
wide, silvery eyes. 

몮Oh yes,몯 said Luna, 몮I몭ve been able to see them ever 
since my first day here. They몭ve always pulled the 
carriages. Don몭t worry. You몭re just as sane as I am.몯 

Smiling faintly, she climbed into the musty interior of 
the carriage after Ron. Not altogether reassured, 

Harry followed her. 



| 255Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




XX 




THE SORTING HAT몭S NEW SONG 

Harry did not want to tell the others that he and Luna 
were having the same hallucination, if that was what 
it was, so he said nothing about the horses as he sat 
down inside the carriage and slammed the door 
behind him. Nevertheless, he could not help watching 
the silhouettes of the horses moving beyond the 
window. 

몮Did everyone see that Grubbly-Plank woman?몯 asked 
Ginny. 몮What몭s she doing back here? Hagrid can몭t 
have left, can he?몯 

몮I몭ll be quite glad if he has,몯 said Luna. 몮He isn몭t a 
very good teacher, is he?몯 

몮Yes, he is!몯 said Harry, Ron, and Ginny angrily. 

Harry glared at Hermione; she cleared her throat and 
quickly said, 몮Erm ... yes ... he몭s very good.몯 

몮Well, we think he몭s a bit of a joke in Ravenclaw,몯 said 
Luna, unfazed. 

| 256Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮You몭ve got a rubbish sense of humor then,몯 Ron 
snapped, as the wheels below them creaked into 
motion. 

Luna did not seem perturbed by Ron몭s rudeness; on 
the contrary, she simply watched him for a while as 
though he were a mildly interesting television 
program. 

Rattling and swaying, the carriages moved in convoy 
up the road. When they passed between the tall stone 
pillars topped with winged boars on either side of the 
gates to the school grounds, Harry leaned forward to 
try and see whether there were any lights on in 
Hagrid몭s cabin by the Forbidden Forest, but the 
grounds were in complete darkness. Hogwarts Castle, 
however, loomed ever closer: a towering mass of 
turrets, jet-black against the dark sky, here and there 
a window blazing fiery bright above them. 

The carriages jingled to a halt near the stone steps 
leading up to the oak front doors and Harry got out of 
the carriage first. He turned again to look for lit 
windows down by the forest, but there was definitely 
no sign of life within Hagrid몭s cabin. Unwillingly, 
because he had half hoped they would have vanished, 
he turned his eyes instead upon the strange, skeletal 
creatures standing quietly in the chill night air, their 
blank white eyes gleaming. 

Harry had once before had the experience of seeing 
something that Ron could not, but that had been a 
reflection in a mirror, something much more 
insubstantial than a hundred very solid-looking 
beasts strong enough to pull a fleet of carriages. If 
Luna was to be believed, the beasts had always been 
there but invisible; why, then, could Harry suddenly 
see them, and why could Ron not? 



| 257Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Are you coming or what?몯 said Ron beside him. 



몮Oh ... yeah,몯 said Harry quickly, and they joined the 
crowd hurrying up the stone steps into the castle. 

The entrance hall was ablaze with torches and 
echoing with footsteps as the students crossed the 
flagged stone floor for the double doors to the right, 
leading to the Great Hall and the start-of-term feast. 

The four long House tables in the Great Hall were 
filling up under the starless black ceiling, which was 
just like the sky they could glimpse through the high 
windows. Candles floated in midair all along the 
tables, illuminating the silvery ghosts who were 
dotted about the Hall and the faces of the students 
talking eagerly to one another, exchanging summer 
news, shouting greetings at friends from other 
Houses, eyeing one another몭s new haircuts and robes. 
Again Harry noticed people putting their heads 
together to whisper as he passed; he gritted his teeth 
and tried to act as though he neither noticed nor 
cared. 

Luna drifted away from them at the Ravenclaw table. 
The moment they reached Gryffindor몭s, Ginny was 
hailed by some fellow fourth years and left to sit with 
them; Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Neville found seats 
together about halfway down the table between Nearly 
Headless Nick, the Gryffindor House ghost, and 
Parvati Patil and Lavender Brown, the last two of 
whom gave Harry airy, overly friendly greetings that 
made him quite sure they had stopped talking about 
him a split second before. He had more important 
things to worry about, however: He was looking over 
the students몭 heads to the staff table that ran along 
the top wall of the Hall. 

몮He몭s not there.몯 

| 258Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Ron and Hermione scanned the staff table too, though 
there was no real need; Hagrid몭s size made him 
instantly obvious in any lineup. 

몮He can몭t have left,몯 said Ron, sounding slightly 
anxious. 

몮Of course he hasn몭t,몯 said Harry firmly. 

몮You don몭t think he몭s ... hurt, or anything, do you?몯 
said Hermione uneasily. 

몮No,몯 said Harry at once. 

몮But where is he, then?몯 

There was a pause, then Harry said very quietly, so 
that Neville, Parvati, and Lavender could not hear, 
몮Maybe he몭s not back yet. You know 멪 from his 
mission 멪 the thing he was doing over the summer 
for Dumbledore.몯 

몮Yeah ... yeah, that몭ll be it,몯 said Ron, sounding 
reassured, but Hermione bit her lip, looking up and 
down the staff table as though hoping for some 
conclusive explanation of Hagrid몭s absence. 

몮Who몭s that?몯 she said sharply, pointing toward the 
middle of the staff table. 

Harry몭s eyes followed hers. They lit first upon 
Professor Dumbledore, sitting in his high-backed 
golden chair at the center of the long staff table, 
wearing deep-purple robes scattered with silvery stars 
and a matching hat. Dumbledore몭s head was inclined 
toward the woman sitting next to him, who was 
talking into his ear. She looked, Harry thought, like 
somebody몭s maiden aunt: squat, with short, curly, 
mouse-brown hair in which she had placed a horrible 
| 259Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




pink Alice band that matched the fluffy pink cardigan 
she wore over her robes. Then she turned her face 
slightly to take a sip from her goblet and he saw, with 
a shock of recognition, a pallid, toadlike face and a 
pair of prominent, pouchy eyes. 

몮It몭s that Umbridge woman!몯 

몮Who?몯 said Hermione. 

몮She was at my hearing, she works for Fudge!몯 

몮Nice cardigan,몯 said Ron, smirking. 

몮She works for Fudge?몯 Hermione repeated, frowning. 
몮What on earth몭s she doing here, then?몯 

몮Dunno ...몯 

Hermione scanned the staff table, her eyes narrowed. 

몮No,몯 she muttered, 몮no, surely not ...몯 

Harry did not understand what she was talking about 
but did not ask; his attention had just been caught by 
Professor Grubbly-Plank who had just appeared 
behind the staff table; she worked her way along to 
the very end and took the seat that ought to have 
been Hagrid몭s. That meant that the first years must 
have crossed the lake and reached the castle, and 
sure enough, a few seconds later, the doors from the 
entrance hall opened. A long line of scared-looking 
first years entered, led by Professor McGonagall, who 
was carrying a stool on which sat an ancient wizard몭s 
hat, heavily patched and darned with a wide rip near 
the frayed brim. 

The buzz of talk in the Great Hall faded away. The 
first years lined up in front of the staff table facing the 

| 260Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




rest of the students, and Professor McGonagall placed 
the stool carefully in front of them, then stood back. 

The first years몭 faces glowed palely in the candlelight. 
A small boy right in the middle of the row looked as 
though he was trembling. Harry recalled, fleetingly, 
how terrified he had felt when he had stood there, 
waiting for the unknown test that would determine to 
which House he belonged. 

The whole school waited with bated breath. Then the 
rip near the hat몭s brim opened wide like a mouth and 
the Sorting Hat burst into song: 

In times of old when I was new 
And Hogwarts barely started 
The founders of our noble school 
Thought never to be parted: 

United by a common goal, 

They had the selfsame yearning, 

To make the world몭s best magic school 
And pass along their learning. 

몮Together we will build and teach!몯 

The four good friends decided 
And never did they dream that they 
Might someday be divided, 

For were there such friends anywhere 
As Slytherin and Gryffndor? 

Unless it was the second pair 
Of Huffepuff and Ravenclaw? 

So how could it have gone so wrong? 

How could such friendships fail? 

Why, I was there and so can tell 
The whole sad, sorry tale. 

Said Slytherin, 몮We몭ll teach just those 
Whose ancestry is purest.몯 

Said Ravenclaw, 몮We몭ll teach those whose 
Intelligence is surest.몯 

Said Gryffindor, 몮We몭ll teach all those 

| 261Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




With brave deeds to their name,몯 

Said Hufflepuff, 몮111 teach the lot, 

And treat them just the same.몯 

These differences caused little strife 
When first they came to light, 

For each of the four founders had 
A House in which they might 
Take only those they wanted, so, 

For instance, Slytherin 
Took only pure-blood wizards 
Of great cunning, just like him, 

And only those of sharpest mind 
Were taught by Ravenclaw 
While the bravest and the boldest 
Went to daring Gryffindor. 

Good Hufflepuff she took the rest, 

And taught them all she knew, 

Thus the Houses and their founders 
Retained friendships firm and true. 

So Hogwarts worked in harmony 
For several happy years, 

But then discord crept among us 
Feeding on our faults and fears. 

The Houses that, like pillars four, 

Had once held up our school, 

Now turned upon each other and, 

Divided, sought to rule. 

And for a while it seemed the school 
Must meet an early end, 

What with dueling and with fighting 
And the clash of friend on friend 
And at last there came a morning 
When old Slytherin departed 
And though the fighting then died out 
He left us quite downhearted. 

And never since the founders four 
Were whittled down to three 
Have the Houses been united 
As they once were meant to be. 

| 262Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




And now the Sorting Hat is here 
And you all know the score: 

I sort you into Houses 
Because that is what I몭m for, 

But this year I몭ll go further, 

Listen closely to my song: 

Though condemned I am to split you 
Still I worry that it몭s wrong, 

Though I must fulfill my duty 
And must quarter every year 
Still I wonder whether sorting 
May not bring the end I fear. 

Oh, know the perils, read the signs, 

The warning history shows, 

For our Hogwarts is in danger 
From external, deadly foes 
And we must unite inside her 
Or we몭ll crumble from within. 

I have told you, I have warned you... 

Let the Sorting now begin. 

The hat became motionless once more; applause 
broke out, though it was punctured, for the first time 
in Harry몭s memory, with muttering and whispers. All 
across the Great Hall students were exchanging 
remarks with their neighbors and Harry, clapping 
along with everyone else, knew exactly what they were 
talking about. 

몮Branched out a bit this year, hasn몭t it?몯 said Ron, his 
eyebrows raised. 

몮Too right it has,몯 said Harry. 

The Sorting Hat usually confined itself to describing 
the different qualities looked for by each of the four 
Hogwarts Houses and its own role in sorting them; 
Harry could not remember it ever trying to give the 
school advice before. 

| 263Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I wonder if it몭s ever given warnings before?몯 said 
Hermione, sounding slightly anxious. 



몮Yes, indeed,몯 said Nearly Headless Nick 
knowledgeably, leaning across Neville toward her 
(Neville winced, it was very uncomfortable to have a 
ghost lean through you). 몮The hat feels itself honor- 
bound to give the school due warning whenever it 
feels 멪 몯 

But Professor McGonagall, who was waiting to read 
out the list of first years몭 names, was giving the 
whispering students the sort of look that scorches. 
Nearly Headless Nick placed a see-through finger to 
his lips and sat primly upright again as the muttering 
came to an abrupt end. With a last frowning look that 
swept the four House tables, Professor McGonagall 
lowered her eyes to her long piece of parchment and 
called out, 

몮Abercrombie, Euan.몯 

The terrified-looking boy Harry had noticed earlier 
stumbled forward and put the hat on his head; it was 
only prevented from falling right down to his 
shoulders by his very prominent ears. The hat 
considered for a moment, then the rip near the brim 
opened again and shouted, 몮 GR YFFIND OR ! 몯 

Harry clapped loudly with the rest of Gryffindor 
House as Euan Abercrombie staggered to their table 
and sat down, looking as though he would like very 
much to sink through the floor and never be looked at 
again. 

Slowly the long line of first years thinned; in the 
pauses between the names and the Sorting Hat몭s 
decisions, Harry could hear Ron몭s stomach rumbling 
loudly. Finally, 몮Zeller, Rose몯 was sorted into 

| 264Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Hufflepuff, and Professor McGonagall picked up the 
hat and stool and marched them away as Professor 
Dumbledore rose to his feet. 

Harry was somehow soothed to see Dumbledore 
standing before them all, whatever his recent bitter 
feelings toward his headmaster. Between the absence 
of Hagrid and the presence of those dragonish horses, 
he had felt that his return to Hogwarts, so long 
anticipated, was full of unexpected surprises like 
jarring notes in a familiar song. But this, at least, was 
how it was supposed to be: their headmaster rising to 
greet them all before the start-of-term feast. 

몮To our newcomers,몯 said Dumbledore in a ringing 
voice, his arms stretched wide and a beaming smile 
on his lips, 몮welcome! To our old hands 멪 welcome 
back! There is a time for speech making, but this is 
not it. Tuck in!몯 

There was an appreciative laugh and an outbreak of 
applause as Dumbledore sat down neatly and threw 
his long beard over his shoulder so as to keep it out of 
the way of his plate 멪 for food had appeared out of 
nowhere, so that the five long tables were groaning 
under joints and pies and dishes of vegetables, bread, 
sauces, and flagons of pumpkin juice. 

몮Excellent,몯 said Ron, with a kind of groan of longing, 
and he seized the nearest plate of chops and began 
piling them onto his plate, watched wistfully by 
Nearly Headless Nick. 

몮What were you saying before the Sorting?몯 Hermione 
asked the ghost. 몮About the hat giving warnings?몯 

몮Oh yes,몯 said Nick, who seemed glad of a reason to 
turn away from Ron, who was now eating roast 
potatoes with almost indecent enthusiasm. 몮Yes, I 

| 265Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




have heard the hat give several warnings before, 
always at times when it detects periods of great 
danger for the school. And always, of course, its 
advice is the same: Stand together, be strong from 
within.몯 

몮Ow kunnit nofe skusin danger ifzat?몯 said Ron. 

His mouth was so full Harry thought it was quite an 
achievement for him to make any noise at all. 

몮I beg your pardon?몯 said Nearly Headless Nick 
politely, while Hermione looked revolted. Ron gave an 
enormous swallow and said, 몮How can it know if the 
school몭s in danger if it몭s a hat?몯 

몮I have no idea,몯 said Nearly Headless Nick. 몮Of 
course, it lives in Dumbledore몭s office, so I daresay it 
picks things up there.몯 

몮And it wants all the Houses to be friends?몯 said 
Harry, looking over at the Slytherin table, where 
Draco Malfoy was holding court. 몮Fat chance.몯 

몮Well, now, you shouldn몭t take that attitude,몯 said 
Nick reprovingly. 몮Peaceful cooperation, that몭s the 
key. We ghosts, though we belong to separate Houses, 
maintain links of friendship. In spite of the 
competitiveness between Gryffindor and Slytherin, I 
would never dream of seeking an argument with the 
Bloody Baron.몯 

몮Only because you몭re terrified of him,몯 said Ron. 

Nearly Headless Nick looked highly affronted. 

몮Terrified? I hope I, Sir Nicholas de Mimsy- 
Porpington, have never been guilty of cowardice in my 
life! The noble blood that runs in my veins 멪 몯 

| 266Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮What blood?몯 asked Ron. 몮Surely you haven몭t still got 
멪 ?몯 

몮It몭s a figure of speech!몯 said Nearly Headless Nick, 
now so annoyed his head was trembling ominously on 
his partially severed neck. 몮I assume I am still allowed 
to enjoy the use of whichever words I like, even if the 
pleasures of eating and drinking are denied me! But I 
am quite used to students poking fun at my death, I 
assure you!몯 

몮Nick, he wasn몭t really laughing at you!몯 said 
Hermione, throwing a furious look at Ron. 

Unfortunately, Ron몭s mouth was packed to exploding 
point again and all he could manage was 몮node 
iddum eentup sechew,몯 which Nick did not seem to 
think constituted an adequate apology. Rising into 
the air, he straightened his feathered hat and swept 
away from them to the other end of the table, coming 
to rest between the Creevey brothers, Colin and 
Dennis. 

몮Well done, Ron,몯 snapped Hermione. 

몮What?몯 said Ron indignantly, having managed, 
finally, to swallow his food. 몮I몭m not allowed to ask a 
simple question?몯 

몮Oh forget it,몯 said Hermione irritably, and the pair of 
them spent the rest of the meal in huffy silence. 

Harry was too used to their bickering to bother trying 
to reconcile them; he felt it was a better use of his 
time to eat his way steadily through his steak-and- 
kidney pie, then a large plateful of his favorite treacle 
tart. 



| 267Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




When all the students had finished eating and the 
noise level in the hall was starting to creep upward 
again, Dumbledore got to his feet once more. Talking 
ceased immediately as all turned to face the 
headmaster. Harry was feeling pleasantly drowsy 
now. His four-poster bed was waiting somewhere 
above, wonderfully warm and soft... 

몮Well, now that we are all digesting another 
magnificent feast, I beg a few moments of your 
attention for the usual start-of-term notices,몯 said 
Dumbledore. 몮First years ought to know that the 
forest in the grounds is out of bounds to students 멪 
and a few of our older students ought to know by now 
too.몯 (Harry, Ron, and Hermione exchanged smirks.) 

몮Mr. Filch, the caretaker, has asked me, for what he 
tells me is the four hundred and sixty-second time, to 
remind you all that magic is not permitted in 
corridors between classes, nor are a number of other 
things, all of which can be checked on the extensive 
list now fastened to Mr. Filch몭s office door. 

몮We have had two changes in staffing this year. We 
are very pleased to welcome back Professor Grubbly- 
Plank, who will be taking Care of Magical Creatures 
lessons; we are also delighted to introduce Professor 
Umbridge, our new Defense Against the Dark Arts 
teacher.몯 

There was a round of polite but fairly unenthusiastic 
applause during which Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
exchanged slightly panicked looks; Dumbledore had 
not said for how long Grubbly-Plank would be 
teaching. 

Dumbledore continued, 몮Tryouts for the House 
Quidditch teams will take place on the 멪 몯 



| 268Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He broke off, looking inquiringly at Professor 
Umbridge. As she was not much taller standing than 
sitting, there was a moment when nobody understood 
why Dumbledore had stopped talking, but then 
Professor Umbridge said, 몮Hem, hem,몯 and it became 
clear that she had got to her feet and was intending to 
make a speech. 

Dumbledore only looked taken aback for a moment, 
then he sat back down smartly and looked alertly at 
Professor Umbridge as though he desired nothing 
better than to listen to her talk. Other members of 
staff were not as adept at hiding their surprise. 
Professor Sprout몭s eyebrows had disappeared into her 
flyaway hair, and Professor McGonagall몭s mouth was 
as thin as Harry had ever seen it. No new teacher had 
ever interrupted Dumbledore before. Many of the 
students were smirking; this woman obviously did not 
know how things were done at Hogwarts. 

몮Thank you, Headmaster,몯 Professor Umbridge 
simpered, 몮for those kind words of welcome.몯 

Her voice was high-pitched, breathy, and little-girlish 
and again, Harry felt a powerful rush of dislike that 
he could not explain to himself; all he knew was that 
he loathed everything about her, from her stupid 
voice to her fluffy pink cardigan. She gave another 
little throat-clearing cough (몮Hem, hem몯) and 
continued: 몮Well, it is lovely to be back at Hogwarts, I 
must say!몯 She smiled, revealing very pointed teeth. 
몮And to see such happy little faces looking back at 
me!몯 

Harry glanced around. None of the faces he could see 
looked happy; on the contrary, they all looked rather 
taken aback at being addressed as though they were 
five years old. 



| 269Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I am very much looking forward to getting to know 
you all, and I몭m sure well be very good friends!몯 

Students exchanged looks at this; some of them were 
barely concealing grins. 

몮I몭ll be her friend as long as I don몭t have to borrow 
that cardigan,몯 Parvati whispered to Lavender, and 
both of them lapsed into silent giggles. 

Professor Umbridge cleared her throat again (몮Hem, 
hem몯), but when she continued, some of the 
breathiness had vanished from her voice. She 
sounded much more businesslike and now her words 
had a dull learned-by-heart sound to them. 

몮The Ministry of Magic has always considered the 
education of young witches and wizards to be of vital 
importance. The rare gifts with which you were born 
may come to nothing if not nurtured and honed by 
careful instruction. The ancient skills unique to the 
Wizarding community must be passed down through 
the generations lest we lose them forever. The 
treasure trove of magical knowledge amassed by our 
ancestors must be guarded, replenished, and polished 
by those who have been called to the noble profession 
of teaching.몯 

Professor Umbridge paused here and made a little 
bow to her fellow staff members, none of whom bowed 
back. Professor McGonagall몭s dark eyebrows had 
contracted so that she looked positively hawklike, and 
Harry distinctly saw her exchange a significant glance 
with Professor Sprout as Umbridge gave another little 
몮Hem, hem몯 and went on with her speech. 

몮Every headmaster and headmistress of Hogwarts has 
brought something new to the weighty task of 
governing this historic school, and that is as it should 

| 270Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




be, for without progress there will be stagnation and 
decay. There again, progress for progress몭s sake must 
be discouraged, for our tried and tested traditions 
often require no tinkering. A balance, then, between 
old and new, between permanence and change, 
between tradition and innovation ...몯 

Harry found his attentiveness ebbing, as though his 
brain was slipping in and out of tune. The quiet that 
always filled the Hall when Dumbledore was speaking 
was breaking up as students put their heads 
together, whispering and giggling. Over at the 
Ravenclaw table, Cho Chang was chatting animatedly 
with her friends. A few seats along from Cho, Luna 
Lovegood had got out The Quibbler again. Meanwhile 
at the Hufflepuff table, Ernie Macmillan was one of 
the few still staring at Professor Umbridge, but he was 
glassy-eyed and Harry was sure he was only 
pretending to listen in an attempt to live up to the 
new prefect몭s badge gleaming on his chest. 

Professor Umbridge did not seem to notice the 
restlessness of her audience. Harry had the 
impression that a full-scale riot could have broken 
out under her nose and she would have plowed on 
with her speech. The teachers, however, were still 
listening very attentively, and Hermione seemed to be 
drinking in every word Umbridge spoke, though 
judging by her expression, they were not at all to her 
taste. 

"... because some changes will be for the better, while 
others will come, in the fullness of time, to be 
recognized as errors of judgment. Meanwhile, some 
old habits will be retained, and rightly so, whereas 
others, outmoded and outworn, must be abandoned. 
Let us move forward, then, into a new era of 
openness, effectiveness, and accountability, intent on 
preserving what ought to be preserved, perfecting 
| 271Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




what needs to be perfected, and pruning wherever we 
find practices that ought to be prohibited.몯 

She sat down. Dumbledore clapped. The staff followed 
his lead, though Harry noticed that several of them 
brought their hands together only once or twice 
before stopping. A few students joined in, but most 
had been taken unawares by the end of the speech, 
not having listened to more than a few words of it, 
and before they could start applauding properly, 
Dumbledore had stood up again. 

몮Thank you very much, Professor Umbridge, that was 
most illuminating,몯 he said, bowing to her. 몮Now 멪 as 
I was saying, Quidditch tryouts will be held ...몯 

몮Yes, it certainly was illuminating,몯 said Hermione in 
a low voice. 

몮You몭re not telling me you enjoyed it?몯 Ron said 
quietly, turning a glazed face upon Hermione. 몮That 
was about the dullest speech I몭ve ever heard, and I 
grew up with Percy.몯 

몮I said illuminating, not enjoyable,몯 said Hermione. 몮It 
explained a lot.몯 

몮Did it?몯 said Harry in surprise. 몮Sounded like a load 
of waffle to me.몯 

몮There was some important stuff hidden in the 
waffle,몯 said Hermione grimly. 

몮Was there?몯 said Ron blankly. 

몮How about 몬progress for progress몭s sake must be 
discouraged몭? How about 몬pruning wherever we find 
practices that ought to be prohibited몭?몯 



| 272Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Well, what does that mean?몯 said Ron impatiently. 



몮Ill tell you what it means,몯 said Hermione ominously. 
몮It means the Ministry몭s interfering at Hogwarts.몯 

There was a great clattering and banging all around 
them; Dumbledore had obviously just dismissed the 
school, because everyone was standing up ready to 
leave the Hall. Hermione jumped up, looking 
flustered. 

몮Ron, we몭re supposed to show the first years where to 
go!몯 

몮Oh yeah,몯 said Ron, who had obviously forgotten. 
몮Hey 멪 hey you lot! Midgets!몯 

몮Ron\몯 

몮Well, they are, they몭re titchy...몯 

몮I know, but you can몭t call them midgets... First 
years!몯 Hermione called commandingly along the 
table. 몮This way, please!몯 

A group of new students walked shyly up the gap 
between the Gryffindor and Hufflepuff tables, all of 
them trying hard not to lead the group. They did 
indeed seem very small; Harry was sure he had not 
appeared that young when he had arrived here. He 
grinned at them. A blond boy next to Euan 
Abercrombie looked petrified, nudged Euan, and 
whispered something in his ear. Euan Abercrombie 
looked equally frightened and stole a horrified look at 
Harry, who felt the grin slide off his face like 
Stinksap. 

몮See you later,몯 he said to Ron and Hermione and he 
made his way out of the Great Hall alone, doing 

| 273Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




everything he could to ignore more whispering, 
staring, and pointing as he passed. He kept his eyes 
fixed ahead as he wove his way through the crowd in 
the entrance hall, then he hurried up the marble 
staircase, took a couple of concealed shortcuts, and 
had soon left most of the crowds behind. 

He had been stupid not to expect this, he thought 
angrily, as he walked through much emptier upstairs 
corridors. Of course everyone was staring at him: He 
had emerged from the Triwizard maze two months ago 
clutching the dead body of a fellow student and 
claiming to have seen Lord Voldemort return to 
power. There had not been time last term to explain 
himself before everyone went home, even if he had felt 
up to giving the whole school a detailed account of the 
terrible events in that graveyard. 

He had reached the end of the corridor to the 
Gryffindor common room and had come to a halt in 
front of the portrait of the Fat Lady before he realized 
that he did not know the new password. 

몮Er ...몯 he said glumly, staring up at the Fat Lady, 
who smoothed the folds of her pink satin dress and 
looked sternly back at him. 

몮No password, no entrance,몯 she said loftily. 

몮Harry, I know it!몯 someone panted from behind him, 
and he turned to see Neville jogging toward him. 
몮Guess what it is? I몭m actually going to be able to 
remember it for once 멪 몯 He waved the stunted little 
cactus he had shown them on the train. 몮Mimbulus 
mimbletonio 1몯 

몮Correct,몯 said the Fat Lady, and her portrait swung 
open toward them like a door, revealing a circular 



| 274Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




hole in the wall behind, through which Harry and 
Neville now climbed. 

The Gryffindor common room looked as welcoming as 
ever, a cozy circular tower room full of dilapidated 
squashy armchairs and rickety old tables. A fire was 
crackling merrily in the grate and a few people were 
warming their hands before going up to their 
dormitories; on the other side of the room Fred and 
George Weasley were pinning something up on the 
notice board. Harry waved good night to them and 
headed straight for the door to the boys몭 dormitories; 
he was not in much of a mood for talking at the 
moment. Neville followed him. 

Dean Thomas and Seamus Finnigan had reached the 
dormitory first and were in the process of covering the 
walls beside their beds with posters and photographs. 
They had been talking as Harry pushed open the door 
but stopped abruptly the moment they saw him. 

Harry wondered whether they had been talking about 
him, then whether he was being paranoid. 

몮Hi,몯 he said, moving across to his own trunk and 
opening it. 

몮Hey, Harry,몯 said Dean, who was putting on a pair of 
pajamas in the West Ham colors. 몮Good holiday?몯 

몮Not bad,몯 muttered Harry, as a true account of his 
holiday would have taken most of the night to relate 
and he could not face it. 몮You?몯 

몮Yeah, it was okay,몯 chuckled Dean. 몮Better than 
Seamus몭s anyway, he was just telling me.몯 

몮Why, what happened, Seamus?몯 Neville asked as he 
placed his Mimbulus mimbletonia tenderly on his 
bedside cabinet. 

| 275Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Seamus did not answer immediately; he was making 
rather a meal of ensuring that his poster of the 
Kenmare Kestrels Quidditch team was quite straight. 
Then he said, with his back still turned to Harry, 몮Me 
mam didn몭t want me to come back.몯 

몮What?몯 said Harry, pausing in the act of pulling off 
his robes. 

몮She didn몭t want me to come back to Hogwarts.몯 

Seamus turned away from his poster and pulled his 
own pajamas out of his trunk, still not looking at 
Harry. 

몮But 멪 why?몯 said Harry, astonished. He knew that 
Seamus몭s mother was a witch and could not 
understand, therefore, why she should have come 
over so Dursley-ish. 

Seamus did not answer until he had finished 
buttoning his pajamas. 

몮Well,몯 he said in a measured voice, 몮I suppose ... 
because of you.몯 

몮What d몭you mean?몯 said Harry quickly. His heart was 
beating rather fast. He felt vaguely as though 
something was closing in on him. 

몮Well,몯 said Seamus again, still avoiding Harry몭s eyes, 
몮she ... er ... well, it몭s not just you, it몭s Dumbledore 
too ...몯 

몮She believes the Daily Prophet?몯 said Harry. 몮She 
thinks I몭m a liar and Dumbledore 몭s an old fool?몯 

Seamus looked up at him. 몮Yeah, something like 
that.몯 

| 276Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry said nothing. He threw his wand down onto his 
bedside table, pulled off his robes, stuffed them 
angrily into his trunk, and pulled on his pajamas. He 
was sick of it; sick of being the person who was stared 
at and talked about all the time. If any of them knew, 
if any of them had the faintest idea what it felt like to 
be the one all these things had happened to ... Mrs. 
Finnigan had no idea, the stupid woman, he thought 
savagely. 

He got into bed and made to pull the hangings closed 
around him, but before he could do so, Seamus said, 
몮Look . . . what did happen that night when . . . you 
know, when . . . with Cedric Diggory and all?몯 

Seamus sounded nervous and eager at the same time. 
Dean, who had been bending over his trunk, trying to 
retrieve a slipper, went oddly still and Harry knew he 
was listening hard. 

몮What are you asking me for?몯 Harry retorted. 몮Just 
read the Daily Prophet like your mother, why don몭t 
you? That몭ll tell you all you need to know.몯 

몮Don몭t you have a go at my mother,몯 snapped 
Seamus. 

몮I몭ll have a go at anyone who calls me a liar,몯 said 
Harry. 

몮Don몭t talk to me like that!몯 

몮I몭ll talk to you how I want,몯 said Harry, his temper 
rising so fast he snatched his wand back from his 
bedside table. 몮If you몭ve got a problem sharing a 
dormitory with me, go and ask McGonagall if you can 
be moved, stop your mummy worrying 멪 몯 

몮Leave my mother out of this, Potter!몯 

| 277Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮What몭s going on?몯 

Ron had appeared in the doorway. His wide eyes 
traveled from Harry, who was kneeling on his bed 
with his wand pointing at Seamus, to Seamus, who 
was standing there with his fists raised. 

몮He몭s having a go at my mother!몯 Seamus yelled. 

몮What?몯 said Ron. 몮Harry wouldn몭t do that 멪 we met 
your mother, we liked her...몯 

몮That몭s before she started believing every word the 
stinking Daily Prophet writes about me!몯 said Harry at 
the top of his voice. 

몮Oh,몯 said Ron, comprehension dawning across his 
freckled face. 몮Oh ... right.몯 

몮You know what?몯 said Seamus heatedly, casting 
Harry a venomous look. 몮He몭s right, I don몭t want to 
share a dormitory with him anymore, he몭s a 
madman.몯 

몮That몭s out of order, Seamus,몯 said Ron, whose ears 
were starting to glow red, always a danger sign. 

몮Out of order, am I?몯 shouted Seamus, who in 
contrast with Ron was turning paler. 몮You believe all 
the rubbish he몭s come out with about You-Know-Who, 
do you, you reckon he몭s telling the truth?몯 

몮Yeah, I do!몯 said Ron angrily. 

몮Then you몭re mad too,몯 said Seamus in disgust. 

몮Yeah? Well unfortunately for you, pal, I몭m also a 
prefect!몯 said Ron, jabbing himself in the chest with a 



| 278Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




finger. 몮So unless you want detention, watch your 
mouth!몯 

Seamus looked for a few seconds as though detention 
would be a reasonable price to pay to say what was 
going through his mind; but with a noise of contempt 
he turned on his heel, vaulted into bed, and pulled 
the hangings shut with such violence that they were 
ripped from the bed and fell in a dusty pile to the 
floor. Ron glared at Seamus, then looked at Dean and 
Neville. 

몮Anyone else몭s parents got a problem with Harry?몯 he 
said aggressively. 

몮My parents are Muggles, mate,몯 said Dean, 
shrugging. 몮They don몭t know nothing about no deaths 
at Hogwarts, because I몭m not stupid enough to tell 
them.몯 

몮You don몭t know my mother, she몭ll weasel anything 
out of anyone!몯 Seamus snapped at him. 몮Anyway, 
your parents don몭t get the Daily Prophet, they don몭t 
know our headmaster몭s been sacked from the 
Wizengamot and the International Confederation of 
Wizards because he몭s losing his marbles 멪 몯 

몮My gran says that몭s rubbish,몯 piped up Neville. 몮She 
says it몭s the Daily Prophet that몭s going downhill, not 
Dumbledore. She몭s canceled our subscription. We 
believe Harry,몯 he said simply. He climbed into bed 
and pulled the covers up to his chin, looking owlishly 
over them at Seamus. 몮My gran몭s always said You- 
Know-Who would come back one day. She says if 
Dumbledore says he몭s back, he몭s back.몯 

Harry felt a rush of gratitude toward Neville. Nobody 
else said anything. Seamus got out his wand, repaired 
the bed hangings, and vanished behind them. Dean 

| 279Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




got into bed, rolled over, and fell silent. Neville, who 
appeared to have nothing more to say either, was 
gazing fondly at his moonlit cactus. 

Harry lay back on his pillows while Ron bustled 
around the next bed, putting his things away. He felt 
shaken by the argument with Seamus, whom he had 
always liked very much. How many more people were 
going to suggest that he was lying or unhinged? 

Had Dumbledore suffered like this all summer, as 
first the Wizengamot, then the International 
Confederation of Wizards had thrown him from their 
ranks? Was it anger at Harry, perhaps, that had 
stopped Dumbledore getting in touch with him for 
months? The two of them were in this together, after 
all; Dumbledore had believed Harry, announced his 
version of events to the whole school and then to the 
wider Wizarding community. Anyone who thought 
Harry was a liar had to think that Dumbledore was 
too or else that Dumbledore had been hoodwinked... 

They몭ll know we몭re right in the end, thought Harry 
miserably, as Ron got into bed and extinguished the 
last candle in the dormitory. But he wondered how 
many attacks like Seamus몭s he would have to endure 
before that time came. 



| 280Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






PROFESSOR UMBRIDGE 

Seamus dressed at top speed next morning and left 
the dormitory before Harry had even put on his socks. 

몮Does he think hell turn into a nutter if he stays in a 
room with me too long?몯 asked Harry loudly, as the 
hem of Seamus몭s robes whipped out of sight. 

몮Don몭t worry about it, Harry,몯 Dean muttered, 
hoisting his school-bag onto his shoulder. 몮He몭s just 
...몯 But apparently he was unable to say exactly what 
Seamus was, and after a slightly awkward pause 
followed him out of the room. 

Neville and Ron both gave Harry it몭s-his-problem-not- 
yours looks, but Harry was not much consoled. How 
much more of this was he going to have to take? 

몮What몭s the matter?몯 asked Hermione five minutes 
later, catching up with Harry and Ron halfway across 
the common room as they all headed toward 



| 281Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



breakfast. 몮You look absolutely 멪 oh for heaven몭s 
sake.몯 



She was staring at the common room notice board, 
where a large new sign had been put up. 

GALLONS OF GALLEONS! 

Pocket money failing to keep pace with your 
outgoings? 

Like to earn a little extra gold? 



Contact Fred and George Weasley, 

Gryffindor common room, 

for simple, part-time, virtually painless jobs 

(WE REGRET THAT ALL WORK IS UNDERTAKEN AT 
APPLICANT몭S OWN RISK) 

몮They are the limit,몯 said Hermione grimly, taking 
down the sign, which Fred and George had pinned up 
over a poster giving the date of the first Hogsmeade 
weekend in October. 몮We몭ll have to talk to them, Ron.몯 

Ron looked positively alarmed. 

몮Why?몯 

몮Because we몭re prefects!몯 said Hermione, as they 
climbed out through the portrait hole. 몮It몭s up to us to 
stop this kind of thing!몯 

Ron said nothing; Harry could tell from his glum 
expression that the prospect of stopping Fred and 

| 282Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




George doing exactly what they liked was not one that 
he found inviting. 

몮Anyway, what몭s up, Harry?몯 Hermione continued, as 
they walked down a flight of stairs lined with portraits 
of old witches and wizards, all of whom ignored them, 
being engrossed in their own conversation. 몮You look 
really angry about something.몯 

몮Seamus reckons Harry몭s lying about You-Know- 
Who,몯 said Ron succinctly, when Harry did not 
respond. 

Hermione, whom Harry had expected to react angrily 
on his behalf, sighed. 

몮Yes, Lavender thinks so too,몯 she said gloomily. 

몮Been having a nice little chat with her about whether 
or not I몭m a lying, attention-seeking prat, have you?몯 
Harry said loudly. 

몮No,몯 said Hermione calmly, 몮I told her to keep her big 
fat mouth shut about you, actually. And it would be 
quite nice if you stopped jumping down Ron몭s and my 
throats, Harry, because if you haven몭t noticed, we몭re 
on your side.몯 

There was a short pause. 

몮Sorry,몯 said Harry in a low voice. 

몮That몭s quite all right,몯 said Hermione with dignity. 
Then she shook her head. 몮Don몭t you remember what 
Dumbledore said at the end-of-term feast last year?몯 

Harry and Ron both looked at her blankly, and 
Hermione sighed again. 



| 283Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮About You-Know-Who. He said, 몬His gift for spreading 
discord and enmity is very great. We can fight it only 
by showing an equally strong bond of friendship and 
trust 멪 몭 몯 

몮How do you remember stuff like that?몯 asked Ron, 
looking at her in admiration. 

몮I listen, Ron,몯 said Hermione with a touch of 
asperity. 

몮So do I, but I still couldn몭t tell you exactly what 멪 몯 

몮The point,몯 Hermione pressed on loudly, 몮is that this 
sort of thing is exactly what Dumbledore was talking 
about. You-Know- Who몭s only been back two months, 
and we몭ve started fighting among ourselves. And the 
Sorting Hat몭s warning was the same 멪 stand 
together, be united 멪 몯 

몮And Harry said it last night,몯 retorted Ron, 몮if that 
means we몭re supposed to get matey with the 
Slytherins, fat chance.몯 

몮Well, I think it몭s a pity we몭re not trying for a bit of 
inter-House unity,몯 said Hermione crossly. 

They had reached the foot of the marble staircase. A 
line of fourth-year Ravenclaws was crossing the 
entrance hall; they caught sight of Harry and hurried 
to form a tighter group, as though frightened he 
might attack stragglers. 

몮Yeah, we really ought to be trying to make friends 
with people like that,몯 said Harry sarcastically. 

They followed the Ravenclaws into the Great Hall, 
looking instinctively at the staff table as they entered. 
Professor Grubbly-Plank was chatting to Professor 

| 284Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Sinistra, the Astronomy teacher, and Hagrid was once 
again conspicuous only by his absence. The 
enchanted ceiling above them echoed Harry몭s mood; it 
was a miserable rain-cloud gray. 

몮Dumbledore didn몭t even mention how long that 
Grubbly-Plank woman몭s staying,몯 he said, as they 
made their way across to the Gryffindor table. 

몮Maybe ...몯 said Hermione thoughtfully. 

몮What?몯 said both Harry and Ron together. 

몮Well ... maybe he didn몭t want to draw attention to 
Hagrid not being here.몯 

몮What d몭you mean, draw attention to it?몯 said Ron, 
half laughing. 몮How could we not notice?몯 

Before Hermione could answer, a tall black girl with 
long, braided hair had marched up to Harry. 

몮Hi, Angelina.몯 

몮Hi,몯 she said briskly, 몮good summer?몯 And without 
waiting for an answer, 몮Listen, I몭ve been made 
Gryffindor Quidditch Captain.몯 

몮Nice one,몯 said Harry, grinning at her; he suspected 
Angelina몭s pep talks might not be as long-winded as 
Oliver Wood몭s had been, which could only be an 
improvement. 

몮Yeah, well, we need a new Keeper now Oliver몭s left. 
Tryouts are on Friday at five o몭clock and I want the 
whole team there, all right? Then we can see how the 
new person몭ll fit in.몯 



| 285Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Okay,몯 said Harry, and she smiled at him and 
departed. 

몮I몭d forgotten Wood had left,몯 said Hermione vaguely, 
sitting down beside Ron and pulling a plate of toast 
toward her. 몮I suppose that will make quite a 
difference to the team?몯 

몮I s몭pose,몯 said Harry, taking the bench opposite. 몮He 
was a good Keeper...몯 

몮Still, it won몭t hurt to have some new blood, will it?몯 
said Ron. 

With a whoosh and a clatter, hundreds of owls came 
soaring in through the upper windows. They 
descended all over the Hall, bringing letters and 
packages to their owners and showering the 
breakfasters with droplets of water; it was clearly 
raining hard outside. Hedwig was nowhere to be seen, 
but Harry was hardly surprised; his only 
correspondent was Sirius, and he doubted Sirius 
would have anything new to tell him after only 
twenty-four hours apart. Hermione, however, had to 
move her orange juice aside quickly to make way for a 
large damp barn owl bearing a sodden Daily Prophet 
in its beak. 

몮What are you still getting that for?몯 said Harry 
irritably, thinking of Seamus, as Hermione placed a 
Knut in the leather pouch on the owl몭s leg and it took 
off again. 몮I몭m not bothering ... load of rubbish.몯 

몮It몭s best to know what the enemy are saying,몯 said 
Hermione darkly, and she unfurled the newspaper 
and disappeared behind it, not emerging until Harry 
and Ron had finished eating. 



| 286Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Nothing,몯 she said simply, rolling up the newspaper 
and laying it down by her plate. 몮Nothing about you 
or Dumbledore or anything.몯 

Professor McGonagall was now moving along the table 
handing out schedules. 

몮Look at today!몯 groaned Ron. 몮History of Magic, 
double Potions, Divination, and double Defense 
Against the Dark Arts ... Binns, Snape, Trelawney, 
and that Umbridge woman all in one day! I wish Fred 
and George 몭d hurry up and get those Skiving 
Snackboxes sorted...몯 

몮Do mine ears deceive me?몯 said Fred, arriving with 
George and squeezing onto the bench beside Harry. 
몮Hogwarts prefects surely don몭t wish to skive off 
lessons?몯 

몮Look what we몭ve got today,몯 said Ron grumpily, 
shoving his schedule under Fred몭s nose. 몮That몭s the 
worst Monday I몭ve ever seen.몯 

몮Fair point, little bro,몯 said Fred, scanning the 
column. 몮You can have a bit of Nosebleed Nougat 
cheap if you like.몯 

몮Why몭s it cheap?몯 said Ron suspiciously. 

몮Because you몭ll keep bleeding till you shrivel up, we 
haven몭t got an antidote yet,몯 said George, helping 
himself to a kipper. 

몮Cheers,몯 said Ron moodily, pocketing his schedule, 
몮but I think I몭ll take the lessons.몯 

몮And speaking of your Skiving Snackboxes,몯 said 
Hermione, eyeing Fred and George beadily, 몮you can몭t 
advertise for testers on the Gryffindor notice board.몯 

| 287Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Says who?몯 said George, looking astonished. 

몮Says me,몯 said Hermione. 몮And Ron.몯 

몮Leave me out of it,몯 said Ron hastily. 

Hermione glared at him. Fred and George sniggered. 

몮You몭ll be singing a different tune soon enough, 
Hermione,몯 said Fred, thickly buttering a crumpet. 
몮You몭re starting your fifth year, you몭ll be begging us 
for a Snackbox before long.몯 

몮And why would starting fifth year mean I want a 
Skiving Snackbox?몯 asked Hermione. 

몮Fifth year몭s O.W.L. year,몯 said George. 

몮So?몯 

몮So you몭ve got your exams coming up, haven몭t you? 
They몭ll be keeping your noses so hard to that 
grindstone they몭ll be rubbed raw,몯 said Fred with 
satisfaction. 

몮Half our year had minor breakdowns coming up to 
O.W.L.s,몯 said George happily. 몮Tears and tantrums 
... Patricia Stimpson kept coming over faint...몯 

몮Kenneth Towler came out in boils, d몭you remember?몯 
said Fred reminiscently. 

몮That몭s 몭cause you put Bulbadox Powder in his 
pajamas,몯 said George. 

몮Oh yeah,몯 said Fred, grinning. 몮I몭d forgotten... Hard 
to keep track sometimes, isn몭t it?몯 



| 288Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Anyway, it몭s a nightmare of a year, the fifth,몯 said 
George. 몮If you care about exam results anyway. Fred 
and I managed to keep our spirits up somehow.몯 

몮Yeah ... you got, what was it, three O.W.L.s each?몯 
said Ron. 

몮Yep,몯 said Fred unconcernedly. 몮But we feel our 
futures lie outside the world of academic 
achievement.몯 

몮We seriously debated whether we were going to 
bother coming back for our seventh year,몯 said 
George brightly, 몮now that we몭ve got 멪 몯 

He broke off at a warning look from Harry, who knew 
George had been about to mention the Triwizard 
winnings he had given them. 

몮 멪 now that we몭ve got our O.W.L.s,몯 George said 
hastily. 몮I mean, do we really need N.E.W.T.s? But we 
didn몭t think Mum could take us leaving school early, 
not on top of Percy turning out to be the world몭s 
biggest prat.몯 

몮We몭re not going to waste our last year here, though,몯 
said Fred, looking affectionately around at the Great 
Hall. 몮We몭re going to use it to do a bit of market 
research, find out exactly what the average Hogwarts 
student requires from his joke shop, carefully 
evaluate the results of our research, and then 
produce the products to fit the demand.몯 

몮But where are you going to get the gold to start a 
joke shop?몯 asked Hermione skeptically. 몮You몭re going 
to need all the ingredients and materials 멪 and 
premises too, I suppose...몯 



| 289Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry did not look at the twins. His face felt hot; he 
deliberately dropped his fork and dived down to 
retrieve it. He heard Fred say overhead, 몮Ask us no 
questions and well tell you no lies, Hermione. C몭mon, 
George, if we get there early we might be able to sell a 
few Extendable Ears before Herbology.몯 

Harry emerged from under the table to see Fred and 
George walking away, each carrying a stack of toast. 

몮What did that mean?몯 said Hermione, looking from 
Harry to Ron. 몮 몬Ask us no questions ...몭 Does that 
mean they몭ve already got some gold to start a joke 
shop?몯 

몮You know, I몭ve been wondering about that,몯 said 
Ron, his brow furrowed. 몮They bought me a new set of 
dress robes this summer, and I couldn몭t understand 
where they got the Galleons...몯 

Harry decided it was time to steer the conversation 
out of these dangerous waters. 

몮D몭you reckon it몭s true this year몭s going to be really 
tough? Because of the exams?몯 

몮Oh yeah,몯 said Ron. 몮Bound to be, isn몭t it? O.W.L.s 
are really important, affect the jobs you can apply for 
and everything. We get career advice too, later this 
year, Bill told me. So you can choose what N.E.W.T.s 
you want to do next year.몯 

몮D몭you know what you want to do after Hogwarts?몯 
Harry asked the other two, as they left the Great Hall 
shortly afterward and set off toward their History of 
Magic classroom. 

몮Not really,몯 said Ron slowly. 몮Except ... well ...몯 



| 290Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He looked slightly sheepish. 



몮What?몯 Harry urged him. 

몮Well, it몭d be cool to be an Auror,몯 said Ron in an 
offhand voice. 

몮Yeah, it would,몯 said Harry fervently. 

몮But they몭re, like, the elite,몯 said Ron. 몮You몭ve got to 
be really good. What about you, Hermione?몯 

몮I don몭t know,몯 said Hermione. 몮I think I몭d really like 
to do something worthwhile.몯 

몮An Auror몭s worthwhile!몯 said Harry. 

몮Yes, it is, but it몭s not the only worthwhile thing,몯 said 
Hermione thoughtfully. 몮I mean, if I could take 
S.P.E.W. further ...몯 

Harry and Ron carefully avoided looking at each 
other. 

History of Magic was by common consent the most 
boring subject ever devised by Wizard-kind. Professor 
Binns, their ghost teacher, had a wheezy, droning 
voice that was almost guaranteed to cause severe 
drowsiness within ten minutes, five in warm weather. 
He never varied the form of their lessons, but lectured 
them without pausing while they took notes, or 
rather, gazed sleepily into space. Harry and Ron had 
so far managed to scrape passes in this subject only 
by copying Hermione몭s notes before exams; she alone 
seemed able to resist the soporific power of Binns 몭s 
voice. 

Today they suffered through three quarters of an 
hour몭s droning on the subject of giant wars. Harry 

| 291Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




heard just enough within the first ten minutes to 
appreciate dimly that in another teacher몭s hands this 
subject might have been mildly interesting, but then 
his brain disengaged, and he spent the remaining 
thirty-five minutes playing hangman on a corner of 
his parchment with Ron, while Hermione shot them 
filthy looks out of the corner of her eye. 

몮How would it be,몯 she asked them coldly as they left 
the classroom for break (Binns drifting away through 
the blackboard), 몮if I refused to lend you my notes 
this year?몯 

몮We몭d fail our O.W.L.s,몯 said Ron. 몮If you want that on 
your conscience, Hermione ...몯 

몮Well, you몭d deserve it,몯 she snapped. 몮You don몭t even 
try to listen to him, do you?몯 

몮We do try,몯 said Ron. 몮We just haven몭t got your 
brains or your memory or your concentration 멪 
you몭re just cleverer than we are 멪 is it nice to rub it 
in?몯 



몮Oh, don몭t give me that rubbish,몯 said Hermione, but 
she looked slightly mollified as she led the way out 
into the damp courtyard. 

A fine misty drizzle was falling, so that the people 
standing in huddles around the yard looked blurred 
at the edges. Harry, Ron, and Hermione chose a 
secluded corner under a heavily dripping balcony, 
turning up the collars of their robes against the chilly 
September air and talking about what Snape was 
likely to set them in the first lesson of the year. They 
had got as far as agreeing that it was likely to be 
something extremely difficult, just to catch them off 
guard after a two-month holiday, when someone 
walked around the corner toward them. 

| 292Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Hello, Harry!몯 



It was Cho Chang and what was more, she was on 
her own again. This was most unusual: Cho was 
almost always surrounded by a gang of giggling girls; 
Harry remembered the agony of trying to get her by 
herself to ask her to the Yule Ball. 

몮Hi,몯 said Harry, feeling his face grow hot. At least 
you몭re not covered in Stinksap this time, he told 
himself. Cho seemed to be thinking along the same 
lines. 

몮You got that stuff off, then?몯 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry, trying to grin as though the 
memory of their last meeting was funny as opposed to 
mortifying. 몮So did you ... er ... have a good summer?몯 

The moment he had said this he wished he hadn몭t: 
Cedric had been Cho몭s boyfriend and the memory of 
his death must have affected her holiday almost as 
badly as it had affected Harry몭s... Something seemed 
to tauten in her face, but she said, 몮Oh, it was all 
right, you know...몯 

몮Is that a Tornados badge?몯 Ron demanded suddenly, 
pointing at the front of Cho몭s robes, to which a sky- 
blue badge emblazoned with a double gold T was 
pinned. 몮You don몭t support them, do you?몯 

몮Yeah, I do,몯 said Cho. 

몮Have you always supported them, or just since they 
started winning the league?몯 said Ron, in what Harry 
considered an unnecessarily accusatory tone of voice. 

몮I몭ve supported them since I was six,몯 said Cho coolly. 
몮Anyway ... see you, Harry.몯 

| 293Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




She walked away. Hermione waited until Cho was 
halfway across the courtyard before rounding on Ron. 



몮You are so tactless!몯 

몮What? I only asked her if 멪 몯 

몮Couldn몭t you tell she wanted to talk to Harry on her 
own?몯 

몮So? She could몭ve done, I wasn몭t stopping 멪 몯 

몮What on earth were you attacking her about her 
Quidditch team for?몯 

몮Attacking? I wasn몭t attacking her, I was only 멪 몯 

몮Who cares if she supports the Tornados?몯 

몮Oh, come on, half the people you see wearing those 
badges only bought them last season 멪 몯 

몮But what does it matter?몯 

몮It means they몭re not real fans, they몭re just jumping 
on the bandwagon 멪 몯 

몮That몭s the bell,몯 said Harry listlessly, because Ron 
and Hermione were bickering too loudly to hear it. 
They did not stop arguing all the way down to Snape몭s 
dungeon, which gave Harry plenty of time to reflect 
that between Neville and Ron he would be lucky ever 
to have two minutes몭 conversation with Cho that he 
could look back on without wanting to leave the 
country. 

And yet, he thought, as they joined the queue lining 
up outside Snape몭s classroom door, she had chosen 
to come and talk to him, hadn몭t she? She had been 

| 294Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Cedric몭s girlfriend; she could easily have hated Harry 
for coming out of the Triwizard maze alive when 
Cedric had died, yet she was talking to him in a 
perfectly friendly way, not as though she thought him 
mad, or a liar, or in some horrible way responsible for 
Cedric몭s death... Yes, she had definitely chosen to 
come and talk to him, and that made the second time 
in two days . . . and at this thought, Harry몭s spirits 
rose. Even the ominous sound of Snape몭s dungeon 
door creaking open did not puncture the small, 
hopeful bubble that seemed to have swelled in his 
chest. He filed into the classroom behind Ron and 
Hermione and followed them to their usual table at 
the back, ignoring the huffy, irritable noises now 
issuing from both of them. 

몮Settle down,몯 said Snape coldly, shutting the door 
behind him. 

There was no real need for the call to order; the 
moment the class had heard the door close, quiet had 
fallen and all fidgeting stopped. Snape몭s mere 
presence was usually enough to ensure a class몭s 
silence. 

몮Before we begin today몭s lesson,몯 said Snape, 
sweeping over to his desk and staring around at them 
all, 몮I think it appropriate to remind you that next 
June you will be sitting an important examination, 
during which you will prove how much you have 
learned about the composition and use of magical 
potions. Moronic though some of this class 
undoubtedly are, I expect you to scrape an 
몬Acceptable몭 in your O.W.L., or suffer my ... 
displeasure.몯 

His gaze lingered this time upon Neville, who gulped. 



| 295Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮After this year, of course, many of you will cease 
studying with me,몯 Snape went on. 몮I take only the 
very best into my N.E.W.T. Potions class, which 
means that some of us will certainly be saying good- 
bye.몯 

His eyes rested on Harry and his lip curled. Harry 
glared back, feeling a grim pleasure at the idea that 
he would be able to give up Potions after fifth year. 

몮But we have another year to go before that happy 
moment of farewell,몯 said Snape softly, 몮so whether 
you are intending to attempt N.E.W.T. or not, I advise 
all of you to concentrate your efforts upon 
maintaining the high-pass level I have come to expect 
from my O.W.L. students. 

몮Today we will be mixing a potion that often comes up 
at Ordinary Wizarding Level: the Draught of Peace, a 
potion to calm anxiety and soothe agitation. Be 
warned: If you are too heavy-handed with the 
ingredients you will put the drinker into a heavy and 
sometimes irreversible sleep, so you will need to pay 
close attention to what you are doing.몯 On Harry몭s 
left, Hermione sat up a little straighter, her 
expression one of the utmost attentiveness. 몮The 
ingredients and method몯 멪 Snape flicked his wand 멪 
몮are on the blackboard몯 멪 (they appeared there) 멪 
몮you will find everything you need몯 멪 he flicked his 
wand again 멪 몮in the store cupboard몯 멪 (the door of 
the said cupboard sprang open) 멪 몮you have an hour 
and a half... Start.몯 

Just as Harry, Ron, and Hermione had predicted, 
Snape could hardly have set them a more difficult, 
fiddly potion. The ingredients had to be added to the 
cauldron in precisely the right order and quantities; 
the mixture had to be stirred exactly the right number 
of times, firstly in clockwise, then in counterclockwise 
| 296Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




directions; the heat of the flames on which it was 
simmering had to be lowered to exactly the right level 
for a specific number of minutes before the final 
ingredient was added. 

몮A light silver vapor should now be rising from your 
potion,몯 called Snape, with ten minutes left to go. 

Harry, who was sweating profusely, looked 
desperately around the dungeon. His own cauldron 
was issuing copious amounts of dark gray steam; 
Ron몭s was spitting green sparks. Seamus was 
feverishly prodding the flames at the base of his 
cauldron with the tip of his wand, as they had gone 
out. The surface of Hermione몭s potion, however, was a 
shimmering mist of silver vapor, and as Snape swept 
by he looked down his hooked nose at it without 
comment, which meant that he could find nothing to 
criticize. At Harry몭s cauldron, however, Snape 
stopped, looking down at Harry with a horrible smirk 
on his face. 

몮Potter, what is this supposed to be?몯 

The Slytherins at the front of the class all looked up 
eagerly; they loved hearing Snape taunt Harry. 

몮The Draught of Peace,몯 said Harry tensely. 

몮Tell me, Potter,몯 said Snape softly, 몮can you read?몯 

Draco Malfoy laughed. 

몮Yes, I can,몯 said Harry, his fingers clenched tightly 
around his wand. 

몮Read the third line of the instructions for me, Potter.몯 



| 297Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry squinted at the blackboard; it was not easy to 
make out the instructions through the haze of 
multicolored steam now filling the dungeon. 

몮 몬Add powdered moonstone, stir three times 
counterclockwise, allow to simmer for seven minutes, 
then add two drops of syrup of hellebore.몭 몯 

His heart sank. He had not added syrup of hellebore, 
but had proceeded straight to the fourth line of the 
instructions after allowing his potion to simmer for 
seven minutes. 

몮Did you do everything on the third line, Potter?몯 

몮No,몯 said Harry very quietly. 

몮I beg your pardon?몯 

몮No,몯 said Harry, more loudly. 몮I forgot the 
hellebore...몯 

몮I know you did, Potter, which means that this mess 
is utterly worthless. Evanesco.몯 

The contents of Harry몭s potion vanished; he was left 
standing foolishly beside an empty cauldron. 

몮Those of you who have managed to read the 
instructions, fill one flagon with a sample of your 
potion, label it clearly with your name, and bring it up 
to my desk for testing,몯 said Snape. 몮Homework: 
twelve inches of parchment on the properties of 
moonstone and its uses in potion-making, to be 
handed in on Thursday.몯 

While everyone around him filled their flagons, Harry 
cleared away his things, seething. His potion had 
been no worse than Ron몭s, which was now giving off a 

| 298Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




foul odor of bad eggs, or Neville몭s, which had achieved 
the consistency of just-mixed cement and which 
Neville was now having to gouge out of his cauldron, 
yet it was he, Harry, who would be receiving zero 
marks for the day몭s work. He stuffed his wand back 
into his bag and slumped down onto his seat, 
watching everyone else march up to Snape몭s desk 
with filled and corked flagons. When at long last the 
bell rang, Harry was first out of the dungeon and had 
already started his lunch by the time Ron and 
Hermione joined him in the Great Hall. The ceiling 
had turned an even murkier gray during the morning. 
Rain was lashing the high windows. 

몮That was really unfair,몯 said Hermione consolingly, 
sitting down next to Harry and helping herself to 
shepherd몭s pie. 몮Your potion wasn몭t nearly as bad as 
Goyle몭s, when he put it in his flagon the whole thing 
shattered and set his robes on fire.몯 

몮Yeah, well,몯 said Harry, glowering at his plate, 몮since 
when has Snape ever been fair to me?몯 

Neither of the others answered; all three of them 
knew that Snape and Harry몭s mutual enmity had 
been absolute from the moment Harry had set foot in 
Hogwarts. 

몮I did think he might be a bit better this year,몯 said 
Hermione in a disappointed voice. 몮I mean ... you 
know ...몯 She looked carefully around; there were half 
a dozen empty seats on either side of them and 
nobody was passing the table. "... Now he몭s in the 
Order and everything.몯 

몮Poisonous toadstools don몭t change their spots,몯 said 
Ron sagely. 몮Anyway, I몭ve always thought Dumbledore 
was cracked trusting Snape, where몭s the evidence he 
ever really stopped working for You-Know-Who?몯 

| 299Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I think Dumbledore몭s probably got plenty of evidence, 
even if he doesn몭t share it with you, Ron,몯 snapped 
Hermione. 

몮Oh, shut up, the pair of you,몯 said Harry heavily, as 
Ron opened his mouth to argue back. Hermione and 
Ron both froze, looking angry and offended. 몮Can몭t 
you give it a rest?몯 he said. 몮You몭re always having a go 
at each other, it몭s driving me mad.몯 And abandoning 
his shepherd몭s pie, he swung his schoolbag back over 
his shoulder and left them sitting there. 

He walked up the marble staircase two steps at a 
time, past the many students hurrying toward lunch. 
The anger that had just flared so unexpectedly still 
blazed inside him, and the vision of Ron and 
Hermione 몭s shocked faces afforded him a sense of 
deep satisfaction. Serve them right, he thought. Why 
can몭t they give it a rest? ... Bickering all the time ... It몭s 
enough to drive anyone up the wall. . . 

He passed the large picture of Sir Cadogan the knight 
on a landing; Sir Cadogan drew his sword and 
brandished it fiercely at Harry, who ignored him. 

몮Come back, you scurvy dog, stand fast and fight!몯 
yelled Sir Cadogan in a muffled voice from behind his 
visor, but Harry merely walked on, and when Sir 
Cadogan attempted to follow him by running into a 
neighboring picture, he was rebuffed by its 
inhabitant, a large and angry-looking wolfhound. 

Harry spent the rest of the lunch hour sitting alone 
underneath the trapdoor at the top of North Tower, 
and consequently he was the first to ascend the silver 
ladder that led to Sibyll Trelawney몭s classroom when 
the bell rang. 



| 300Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Divination was Harry몭s least favorite class after 
Potions, which was due mainly to Professor 
Trelawney몭s habit of predicting his premature death 
every few lessons. A thin woman, heavily draped in 
shawls and glittering with strings of beads, she 
always reminded Harry of some kind of insect, with 
her glasses hugely magnifying her eyes. She was busy 
putting copies of battered, leather-bound books on 
each of the spindly little tables with which her room 
was littered when Harry entered the room, but so dim 
was the light cast by the lamps covered by scarves 
and the low-burning, sickly-scented fire that she 
appeared not to notice him as he took a seat in the 
shadows. The rest of the class arrived over the next 
five minutes. Ron emerged from the trapdoor, looked 
around carefully, spotted Harry and made directly for 
him, or as directly as he could while having to wend 
his way between tables, chairs, and overstuffed poufs. 

몮Hermione and me have stopped arguing,몯 he said, 
sitting down beside Harry. 

몮Good,몯 grunted Harry. 

몮But Hermione says she thinks it would be nice if you 
stopped taking out your temper on us,몯 said Ron. 

몮I몭m not 멪 몯 

몮I몭m just passing on the message,몯 said Ron, talking 
over him. 몮But I reckon she몭s right. It몭s not our fault 
how Seamus and Snape treat you.몯 

몮I never said it 멪 몯 

몮Good day,몯 said Professor Trelawney in her usual 
misty, dreamy voice, and Harry broke off, feeling both 
annoyed and slightly ashamed of himself again. 몮And 
welcome back to Divination. I have, of course, been 

| 301Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




following your fortunes most carefully over the 
holidays, and am delighted to see that you have all 
returned to Hogwarts safely 멪 as, of course, I knew 
you would. 

몮You will find on the tables before you copies of The 
Dream Oracle, by Inigo Imago. Dream interpretation is 
a most important means of divining the future and 
one that may very probably be tested in your O.W.L. 
Not, of course, that I believe examination passes or 
failures are of the remotest importance when it comes 
to the sacred art of divination. If you have the Seeing 
Eye, certificates and grades matter very little. 

However, the headmaster likes you to sit the 
examination, so ...몯 

Her voice trailed away delicately, leaving them all in 
no doubt that Professor Trelawney considered her 
subject above such sordid matters as examinations. 

몮Turn, please, to the introduction and read what 
Imago has to say on the matter of dream 
interpretation. Then divide into pairs. Use The Dream 
Oracle to interpret each other몭s most recent dreams. 
Carry on.몯 

The one good thing to be said for this lesson was that 
it was not a double period. By the time they had all 
finished reading the introduction of the book, they 
had barely ten minutes left for dream interpretation. 
At the table next to Harry and Ron, Dean had paired 
up with Neville, who immediately embarked on a long- 
winded explanation of a nightmare involving a pair of 
giant scissors wearing his grandmother몭s best hat; 
Harry and Ron merely looked at each other glumly. 

몮I never remember my dreams,몯 said Ron. 몮You say 
one.몯 



| 302Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮You must remember one of them,몯 said Harry 
impatiently. 

He was not going to share his dreams with anyone. 

He knew perfectly well what his regular nightmare 
about a graveyard meant, he did not need Ron or 
Professor Trelawney or the stupid Dream Oracle to tell 
him that... 

몮Well, I had one that I was playing Quidditch the 
other night,몯 said Ron, screwing up his face in an 
effort to remember. 몮What d몭you reckon that means?몯 

몮Probably that you몭re going to be eaten by a giant 
marshmallow or something,몯 said Harry, turning the 
pages of The Dream Oracle without interest. 

It was very dull work looking up bits of dreams in the 
Oracle and Harry was not cheered up when Professor 
Trelawney set them the task of keeping a dream diary 
for a month as homework. When the bell went, he 
and Ron led the way back down the ladder, Ron 
grumbling loudly. 

몮D몭you realize how much homework we몭ve got 
already? Binns set us a foot-and-a-half-long essay on 
giant wars, Snape wants a foot on the use of 
moonstones, and now we몭ve got a month몭s dream 
diary from Trelawney! Fred and George weren몭t wrong 
about O.W.L. year, were they? That Umbridge woman 
had better not give us any...몯 

When they entered the Defense Against the Dark Arts 
classroom they found Professor Umbridge already 
seated at the teacher몭s desk, wearing the fluffy pink 
cardigan of the night before and the black velvet bow 
on top of her head. Harry was again reminded forcibly 
of a large fly perched unwisely on top of an even 
larger toad. 

| 303Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The class was quiet as it entered the room; Professor 
Umbridge was, as yet, an unknown quantity and 
nobody knew yet how strict a disciplinarian she was 
likely to be. 

몮Well, good afternoon!몯 she said when finally the 
whole class had sat down. 

A few people mumbled 몮Good afternoon,몯 in reply. 

몮Tut, tut,몯 said Professor Umbridge. 몮That won몭t do, 
now, will it? I should like you, please, to reply 몬Good 
afternoon, Professor Umbridge.몭 One more time, 
please. Good afternoon, class!몯 

몮Good afternoon, Professor Umbridge,몯 they chanted 
back at her. 

몮There, now,몯 said Professor Umbridge sweetly. 몮That 
wasn몭t too difficult, was it? Wands away and quills 
out, please.몯 

Many of the class exchanged gloomy looks; the order 
몮wands away몯 had never yet been followed by a lesson 
they had found interesting. Harry shoved his wand 
back inside his bag and pulled out quill, ink, and 
parchment. Professor Umbridge opened her handbag, 
extracted her own wand, which was an unusually 
short one, and tapped the blackboard sharply with it; 
words appeared on the board at once: 

Defense Against the Dark Arts 

A Return to Basic Principles. 

몮Well now, your teaching in this subject has been 
rather disrupted and fragmented, hasn몭t it?몯 stated 
Professor Umbridge, turning to face the class with her 
hands clasped neatly in front of her. 몮The constant 

| 304Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




changing of teachers, many of whom do not seem to 
have followed any Ministry-approved curriculum, has 
unfortunately resulted in your being far below the 
standard we would expect to see in your O.W.L. year. 

몮You will be pleased to know, however, that these 
problems are now to be rectified. We will be following 
a carefully structured, theory-centered, Ministry- 
approved course of defensive magic this year. Copy 
down the following, please.몯 

She rapped the blackboard again; the first message 
vanished and was replaced by: 

Course aims: 

1. Understanding the principles underlying 
defensive magic. 

2. Learning to recognize situations in which 
defensive magic can legally be used. 

3. Placing the use of defensive magic in a context 
for practical use. 

For a couple of minutes the room was full of the 
sound of scratching quills on parchment. When 
everyone had copied down Professor Umbridge몭s three 
course aims she said, 몮Has everybody got a copy of 
Defensive Magical Theory by Wilbert Slinkhard?몯 

There was a dull murmur of assent throughout the 
class. 

몮I think well try that again,몯 said Professor Umbridge. 
몮When I ask you a question, I should like you to reply 
몬Yes, Professor Umbridge,몭 or 몬No, Professor 
Umbridge.몭 So, has everyone got a copy of Defensive 
Magical Theory by Wilbert Slinkhard?몯 

| 305Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Yes, Professor Umbridge,몯 rang through the room. 



몮Good,몯 said Professor Umbridge. 몮I should like you to 
turn to page five and read chapter one, 몬Basics for 
Beginners.몭 There will be no need to talk.몯 

Professor Umbridge left the blackboard and settled 
herself in the chair behind the teacher몭s desk, 
observing them all with those pouchy toad몭s eyes. 
Harry turned to page five of his copy of Defensive 
Magical Theory and started to read. 

It was desperately dull, quite as bad as listening to 
Professor Binns. He felt his concentration sliding 
away from him; he had soon read the same line half a 
dozen times without taking in more than the first few 
words. Several silent minutes passed. Next to him, 

Ron was absent-mindedly turning his quill over and 
over in his fingers, staring at the same spot on the 
page. Harry looked right and received a surprise to 
shake him out of his torpor. Hermione had not even 
opened her copy of Defensive Magical Theory. She was 
staring fixedly at Professor Umbridge with her hand 
in the air. 

Harry could not remember Hermione ever neglecting 
to read when instructed to, or indeed resisting the 
temptation to open any book that came under her 
nose. He looked at her questioningly, but she merely 
shook her head slightly to indicate that she was not 
about to answer questions, and continued to stare at 
Professor Umbridge, who was looking just as 
resolutely in another direction. 

After several more minutes had passed, however, 
Harry was not the only one watching Hermione. The 
chapter they had been instructed to read was so 
tedious that more and more people were choosing to 
watch Hermione몭s mute attempt to catch Professor 
| 306Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Umbridge몭s eye than to struggle on with 몮Basics for 
Beginners.몯 

When more than half the class were staring at 
Hermione rather than at their books, Professor 
Umbridge seemed to decide that she could ignore the 
situation no longer. 

몮Did you want to ask something about the chapter, 
dear?몯 she asked Hermione, as though she had only 
just noticed her. 

몮Not about the chapter, no,몯 said Hermione. 

몮Well, we몭re reading just now,몯 said Professor 
Umbridge, showing her small, pointed teeth. 몮If you 
have other queries we can deal with them at the end 
of class.몯 

몮I몭ve got a query about your course aims,몯 said 
Hermione. 

Professor Umbridge raised her eyebrows. 

몮And your name is 멪 ?몯 

몮Hermione Granger,몯 said Hermione. 

몮Well, Miss Granger, I think the course aims are 
perfectly clear if you read them through carefully,몯 
said Professor Umbridge in a voice of determined 
sweetness. 

몮Well, I don몭t,몯 said Hermione bluntly. 몮There몭s 
nothing written up there about using defensive 
spells.몯 



| 307Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




There was a short silence in which many members of 
the class turned their heads to frown at the three 
course aims still written on the blackboard. 

몮 Using defensive spells?몯 Professor Umbridge repeated 
with a little laugh. 몮Why, I can몭t imagine any situation 
arising in my classroom that would require you to use 
a defensive spell, Miss Granger. You surely aren몭t 
expecting to be attacked during class?몯 

몮We몭re not going to use magic?몯 Ron ejaculated loudly. 

몮Students raise their hands when they wish to speak 
in my class, Mr. 멪 ?몯 

몮Weasley,몯 said Ron, thrusting his hand into the air. 

Professor Umbridge, smiling still more widely, turned 
her back on him. Harry and Hermione immediately 
raised their hands too. Professor Umbridge몭s pouchy 
eyes lingered on Harry for a moment before she 
addressed Hermione. 

몮Yes, Miss Granger? You wanted to ask something 
else?몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Hermione. 몮Surely the whole point of 
Defense Against the Dark Arts is to practice defensive 
spells?몯 

몮Are you a Ministry-trained educational expert, Miss 
Granger?몯 asked Professor Umbridge in her falsely 
sweet voice. 

몮No, but 멪 몯 

몮Well then, I몭m afraid you are not qualified to decide 
what the Svhole point몭 of any class is. Wizards much 
older and cleverer than you have devised our new 

| 308Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




program of study. You will be learning about 
defensive spells in a secure, risk-free way 멪 몯 

몮What use is that?몯 said Harry loudly. 몮If we몭re going 
to be attacked it won몭t be in a 멪 몯 

몮Hand, Mr. Potter!몯 sang Professor Umbridge. 

Harry thrust his fist in the air. Professor Umbridge 
promptly turned away from him again, but now 
several other people had their hands up too. 

몮And your name is?몯 Professor Umbridge said to 
Dean. 

몮Dean Thomas.몯 

몮Well, Mr. Thomas?몯 

몮Well, it몭s like Harry said, isn몭t it?몯 said Dean. 몮If we몭re 
going to be attacked, it won몭t be risk-free 멪 몯 

몮I repeat,몯 said Professor Umbridge, smiling in a very 
irritating fashion at Dean, 몮do you expect to be 
attacked during my classes?몯 

몮No, but 멪 몯 

Professor Umbridge talked over him. 

몮I do not wish to criticize the way things have been 
run in this school,몯 she said, an unconvincing smile 
stretching her wide mouth, 몮but you have been 
exposed to some very irresponsible wizards in this 
class, very irresponsible indeed 멪 not to mention,몯 
she gave a nasty little laugh, 몮extremely dangerous 
half-breeds.몯 



| 309Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮If you mean Professor Lupin,몯 piped up Dean 
Thomas angrily, 몮he was the best we ever 멪 몯 

몮Hand, Mr. Thomas! As I was saying 멪 you have been 
introduced to spells that have been complex, 
inappropriate to your age group, and potentially 
lethal. You have been frightened into believing that 
you are likely to meet Dark attacks every other day 멪 



몮No we haven몭t,몯 Hermione said, 몮we just 멪 몯 

몮Your hand is not up, Miss Grangeii몯 

Hermione put up her hand; Professor Umbridge 
turned away from her. 

몮It is my understanding that my predecessor not only 
performed illegal curses in front of you, he actually 
performed them on you 멪 몯 

몮Well, he turned out to be a maniac, didn몭t he?몯 said 
Dean Thomas hotly. 몮Mind you, we still learned loads 



몮Your hand is not up, Mr. ThomasY trilled Professor 
Umbridge. 몮Now, it is the view of the Ministry that a 
theoretical knowledge will be more than sufficient to 
get you through your examination, which, after all, is 
what school is all about. And your name is?몯 she 
added, staring at Parvati, whose hand had just shot 
up. 

몮Parvati Patil, and isn몭t there a practical bit in our 
Defense Against the Dark Arts O.W.L.? Aren몭t we 
supposed to show that we can actually do the 
countercurses and things?몯 



| 310Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮As long as you have studied the theory hard enough, 
there is no reason why you should not be able to 
perform the spells under carefully controlled 
examination conditions,몯 said Professor Umbridge 
dismissively. 

몮Without ever practicing them before?몯 said Parvati 
incredulously. 몮Are you telling us that the first time 
we몭ll get to do the spells will be during our exam?몯 

몮I repeat, as long as you have studied the theory hard 
enough 멪 몯 

몮And what good몭s theory going to be in the real 
world?몯 said Harry loudly, his fist in the air again. 

Professor Umbridge looked up. 

몮This is school, Mr. Potter, not the real world,몯 she 
said softly. 

몮So we몭re not supposed to be prepared for what몭s 
waiting out there?몯 

몮There is nothing waiting out there, Mr. Potter.몯 

몮Oh yeah?몯 said Harry. His temper, which seemed to 
have been bubbling just beneath the surface all day, 
was reaching boiling point. 

몮Who do you imagine wants to attack children like 
yourselves?몯 inquired Professor Umbridge in a 
horribly honeyed voice. 

몮Hmm, let몭s think ...몯 said Harry in a mock thoughtful 
voice, 몮maybe Lord Voldemort?몯 

Ron gasped; Lavender Brown uttered a little scream; 
Neville slipped sideways off his stool. Professor 

| 311Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Umbridge, however, did not flinch. She was staring at 
Harry with a grimly satisfied expression on her face. 



몮Ten points from Gryffindor, Mr. Potter.몯 

The classroom was silent and still. Everyone was 
staring at either Umbridge or Harry. 

몮Now, let me make a few things quite plain.몯 

Professor Umbridge stood up and leaned toward 
them, her stubby-fingered hands splayed on her desk. 

몮You have been told that a certain Dark wizard has 
returned from the dead 멪 몯 

몮He wasn몭t dead,몯 said Harry angrily, 몮but yeah, he몭s 
returned!몯 

몮Mr.-Potter-you-have-already-lost-your-House-ten- 
points-do-not-make-matters-worse-for-yourself,몯 said 
Professor Umbridge in one breath without looking at 
him. 몮As I was saying, you have been informed that a 
certain Dark wizard is at large once again. This is a 
lie.몯 

몮It is NOT a lie!몯 said Harry. 몮I saw him, I fought him!몯 

몮Detention, Mr. Potter!몯 said Professor Umbridge 
triumphantly. 몮Tomorrow evening. Five o몭clock. My 
office. I repeat, this is a lie. The Ministry of Magic 
guarantees that you are not in danger from any Dark 
wizard. If you are still worried, by all means come and 
see me outside class hours. If someone is alarming 
you with fibs about reborn Dark wizards, I would like 
to hear about it. I am here to help. I am your friend. 
And now, you will kindly continue your reading. 
five, 몬Basics for Beginners.몭 몯 

| 312Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Professor Umbridge sat down behind her desk again. 
Harry, however, stood up. Everyone was staring at 
him; Seamus looked half-scared, half-fascinated. 

몮Harry, no!몯 Hermione whispered in a warning voice, 
tugging at his sleeve, but Harry jerked his arm out of 
her reach. 

몮So, according to you, Cedric Diggory dropped dead of 
his own accord, did he?몯 Harry asked, his voice 
shaking. 

There was a collective intake of breath from the class, 
for none of them, apart from Ron and Hermione, had 
ever heard Harry talk about what had happened on 
the night that Cedric had died. They stared avidly 
from Harry to Professor Umbridge, who had raised 
her eyes and was staring at him without a trace of a 
fake smile on her face. 

몮Cedric Diggory몭s death was a tragic accident,몯 she 
said coldly. 

몮It was murder,몯 said Harry. He could feel himself 
shaking. He had hardly talked to anyone about this, 
least of all thirty eagerly listening classmates. 
몮Voldemort killed him, and you know it.몯 

Professor Umbridge몭s face was quite blank. For a 
moment he thought she was going to scream at him. 
Then she said, in her softest, most sweetly girlish 
voice, 몮Come here, Mr. Potter, dear.몯 

He kicked his chair aside, strode around Ron and 
Hermione and up to the teacher몭s desk. He could feel 
the rest of the class holding its breath. He felt so 
angry he did not care what happened next. 



| 313Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Professor Umbridge pulled a small roll of pink 
parchment out of her handbag, stretched it out on the 
desk, dipped her quill into a bottle of ink, and started 
scribbling, hunched over so that Harry could not see 
what she was writing. Nobody spoke. After a minute 
or so she rolled up the parchment and tapped it with 
her wand; it sealed itself seamlessly so that he could 
not open it. 

몮Take this to Professor McGonagall, dear,몯 said 
Professor Umbridge, holding out the note to him. 

He took it from her without saying a word and left the 
room, not even looking back at Ron and Hermione, 
and slamming the classroom door shut behind him. 
He walked very fast along the corridor, the note to 
McGonagall clutched tight in his hand, and turning a 
corner walked slap into Peeves the Poltergeist, a wide- 
faced little man floating on his back in midair, 
juggling several inkwells. 

몮Why, it몭s Potty Wee Potter!몯 cackled Peeves, allowing 
two of the inkwells to fall to the ground where they 
smashed and spattered the walls with ink; Harry 
jumped backward out of the way with a snarl. 

몮Get out of it, Peeves.몯 

몮Oooh, Crackpot몭s feeling cranky,몯 said Peeves, 
pursuing Harry along the corridor, leering as he 
zoomed along above him. 몮What is it this time, my 
fine Potty friend? Hearing voices? Seeing visions? 
Speaking in몯 멪 Peeves blew a gigantic raspberry 멪 
몮tongues?몯 

몮I said, leave me ALONE!몯 Harry shouted, running 
down the nearest flight of stairs, but Peeves merely 
slid down the banister on his back beside him. 



| 314Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Oh, most think he몭s barking, the Potty wee lad, 

But some are more kindly and think he몭s just sad, 

But Peevesy knows better and says that he몭s mad 멪 몯 
몮SHUT UP!몯 

A door to his left flew open and Professor McGonagall 
emerged from her office looking grim and slightly 
harassed. 

몮What on earth are you shouting about, Potter?몯 she 
snapped, as Peeves cackled gleefully and zoomed out 
of sight. 몮Why aren몭t you in class?몯 

몮I몭ve been sent to see you,몯 said Harry stiffly. 

몮Sent? What do you mean, sent?몯 

He held out the note from Professor Umbridge. 
Professor McGonagall took it from him, frowning, slit 
it open with a tap of her wand, stretched it out, and 
began to read. Her eyes zoomed from side to side 
behind their square spectacles as she read what 
Umbridge had written, and with each line they 
became narrower. 

몮Come in here, Potter.몯 

He followed her inside her study. The door closed 
automatically behind him. 

몮Well?몯 said Professor McGonagall, rounding on him. 
몮Is this true?몯 

몮Is what true?몯 Harry asked, rather more aggressively 
than he had intended. 몮Professor?몯 he added in an 
attempt to sound more polite. 

| 315Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Is it true that you shouted at Professor Umbridge?몯 
몮Yes,몯 said Harry. 

몮You called her a liar?몯 

몮Yes.몯 

몮You told her He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is back?몯 
몮Yes.몯 

Professor McGonagall sat down behind her desk, 
frowning at Harry. Then she said, 몮Have a biscuit, 
Potter.몯 

몮Have 멪 what?몯 

몮Have a biscuit,몯 she repeated impatiently, indicating 
a tartan tin of cookies lying on top of one of the piles 
of papers on her desk. 몮And sit down.몯 

There had been a previous occasion when Harry, 
expecting to be caned by Professor McGonagall, had 
instead been appointed by her to the Gryffindor 
Quidditch team. He sank into a chair opposite her 
and helped himself to a Ginger Newt, feeling just as 
confused and wrong-footed as he had done on that 
occasion. 

Professor McGonagall set down Professor Umbridge몭s 
note and looked very seriously at Harry. 

몮Potter, you need to be careful.몯 

Harry swallowed his mouthful of Ginger Newt and 
stared at her. Her tone of voice was not at all what he 
was used to; it was not brisk, crisp, and stern; it was 



| 316Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




low and anxious and somehow much more human 
than usual. 

몮Misbehavior in Dolores Umbridge몭s class could cost 
you much more than House points and a detention.몯 

몮What do you 멪 ?몯 

몮Potter, use your common sense,몯 snapped Professor 
McGonagall, with an abrupt return to her usual 
manner. 몮You know where she comes from, you must 
know to whom she is reporting.몯 

The bell rang for the end of the lesson. Overhead and 
all around came the elephantine sounds of hundreds 
of students on the move. 

몮It says here she몭s given you detention every evening 
this week, starting tomorrow,몯 Professor McGonagall 
said, looking down at Umbridge몭s note again. 

몮Every evening this week!몯 Harry repeated, horrified. 
몮But, Professor, couldn몭t you 멪 ?몯 

몮No, I couldn몭t,몯 said Professor McGonagall flatly. 

몮But 멪 몯 

몮She is your teacher and has every right to give you 
detention. You will go to her room at five o몭clock 
tomorrow for the first one. Just remember: Tread 
carefully around Dolores Umbridge.몯 

몮But I was telling the truth!몯 said Harry, outraged. 
몮Voldemort몭s back, you know he is, Professor 
Dumbledore knows he is 멪 몯 

몮For heaven몭s sake, Potter!몯 said Professor 
McGonagall, straightening her glasses angrily (she 

| 317Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




had winced horribly when he had used Voldemort몭s 
name). 몮Do you really think this is about truth or 
lies? It몭s about keeping your head down and your 
temper under control!몯 

She stood up, nostrils wide and mouth very thin, and 
he stood too. 

몮Have another biscuit,몯 she said irritably, thrusting 
the tin at him. 

몮No, thanks,몯 said Harry coldly. 

몮Don몭t be ridiculous,몯 she snapped. 

He took one. 

몮Thanks,몯 he said grudgingly. 

몮Didn몭t you listen to Dolores Umbridge몭s speech at the 
start-of-term feast, Potter?몯 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry. 몮Yeah ... she said ... progress will 
be prohibited or ... well, it meant that ... that the 
Ministry of Magic is trying to interfere at Hogwarts.몯 

Professor McGonagall eyed him for a moment, then 
sniffed, walked around her desk, and held open the 
door for him. 

몮Well, I몭m glad you listen to Hermione Granger at any 
rate,몯 she said, pointing him out of her office. 



| 318Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






DETENTION WITH DOLORES 

Dinner in the Great Hall that night was not a pleasant 
experience for Harry. The news about his shouting 
match with Umbridge seemed to have traveled 
exceptionally fast even by Hogwarts standards. He 
heard whispers all around him as he sat eating 
between Ron and Hermione. The funny thing was that 
none of the whisperers seemed to mind him 
overhearing what they were saying about him 멪 on 
the contrary, it was as though they were hoping he 
would get angry and start shouting again, so that 
they could hear his story firsthand. 

몮He says he saw Cedric Diggory murdered...몯 

몮He reckons he dueled with You-Know-Who...몯 

몮Come off it...몯 

몮Who does he think he몭s kidding?몯 

몮Pur - lease ...몯 



| 319Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



몮What I don몭t get,몯 said Harry in a shaking voice, 
laying down his knife and fork (his hands were 
trembling too much to hold them steady), 몮is why they 
all believed the story two months ago when 
Dumbledore told them...몯 

몮The thing is, Harry, I몭m not sure they did,몯 said 
Hermione grimly. 몮Oh, let몭s get out of here.몯 

She slammed down her own knife and fork; Ron 
looked sadly at his half-finished apple pie but 
followed suit. People stared at them all the way out of 
the Hall. 

몮What d몭you mean, you몭re not sure they believed 
Dumbledore?몯 Harry asked Hermione when they 
reached the first-floor landing. 

몮Look, you don몭t understand what it was like after it 
happened,몯 said Hermione quietly. 몮You arrived back 
in the middle of the lawn clutching Cedric몭s dead 
body... None of us saw what happened in the maze... 
We just had Dumbledore몭s word for it that You-Know- 
Who had come back and killed Cedric and fought 
you.몯 

몮Which is the truth!몯 said Harry loudly. 

몮I know it is, Harry, so will you please stop biting my 
head off?몯 said Hermione wearily. 몮It몭s just that before 
the truth could sink in, everyone went home for the 
summer, where they spent two months reading about 
how you몭re a nutcase and Dumbledore몭s going senile!몯 

Rain pounded on the windowpanes as they strode 
along the empty corridors back to Gryffindor Tower. 
Harry felt as though his first day had lasted a week, 
but he still had a mountain of homework to do before 
bed. A dull pounding pain was developing over his 
| 320Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




right eye. He glanced out of a rain-washed window at 
the dark grounds as they turned into the Fat Lady몭s 
corridor. There was still no light in Hagrid몭s cabin. 

몮Mimbulus mimbletonia,몯 said Hermione, before the 
Fat Lady could ask. The portrait swung open to reveal 
the hole behind and the three of them scrambled 
back through it. 

The common room was almost empty; nearly everyone 
was still down at dinner. Crookshanks uncoiled 
himself from an armchair and trotted to meet them, 
purring loudly, and when Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
took their three favorite chairs at the fireside he leapt 
lightly into Hermione 몭s lap and curled up there like a 
furry ginger cushion. Harry gazed into the flames, 
feeling drained and exhausted. 

몮How can Dumbledore have let this happen?몯 
Hermione cried suddenly, making Harry and Ron 
jump; Crookshanks leapt off her, looking affronted. 
She pounded the arms of her chair in fury, so that 
bits of stuffing leaked out of the holes. 몮How can he 
let that terrible woman teach us? And in our O.W.L. 
year too!몯 

몮Well, we몭ve never had great Defense Against the Dark 
Arts teachers, have we?몯 said Harry. 몮You know what 
it몭s like, Hagrid told us, nobody wants the job, they 
say it몭s jinxed.몯 

몮Yes, but to employ someone who몭s actually refusing 
to let us do magic! What몭s Dumbledore playing at?몯 

몮And she몭s trying to get people to spy for her,몯 said 
Ron darkly. 몮Remember when she said she wanted us 
to come and tell her if we hear anyone saying You- 
Know- Who몭s back?몯 



| 321Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Of course she몭s here to spy on us all, that몭s obvious, 
why else would Fudge have wanted her to come?몯 
snapped Hermione. 

몮Don몭t start arguing again,몯 said Harry wearily, as 
Ron opened his mouth to retaliate. 몮Can몭t we just ... 
Let몭s just do that homework, get it out of the way...몯 

They collected their schoolbags from a corner and 
returned to the chairs by the fire. People were coming 
back from dinner now. Harry kept his face averted 
from the portrait hole, but could still sense the stares 
he was attracting. 

몮Shall we do Snape몭s stuff first?몯 said Ron, dipping 
his quill into his ink. 몮 몬The properties ...of moonstone 
... and its uses ...in potion-making ...몭 몯 he muttered, 
writing the words across the top of his parchment as 
he spoke them. 몮There.몯 He underlined the title, then 
looked up expectantly at Hermione. 

몮So what are the properties of moonstone and its uses 
in potion-making?몯 

But Hermione was not listening; she was squinting 
over into the far corner of the room, where Fred, 
George, and Lee Jordan were now sitting at the center 
of a knot of innocent-looking first years, all of whom 
were chewing something that seemed to have come 
out of a large paper bag that Fred was holding. 

몮No, I몭m sorry, they몭ve gone too far,몯 she said, 
standing up and looking positively furious. 몮Come on, 
Ron.몯 

몮I 멪 what?몯 said Ron, plainly playing for time. 몮No 멪 
come on, Hermione 멪 we can몭t tell them off for giving 
out sweets...몯 



| 322Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮You know perfectly well that those are bits of 
Nosebleed Nougat or 멪 or Puking Pastilles or 멪 몯 

몮Fainting Fancies?몯 Harry suggested quietly. 

One by one, as though hit over the heads with 
invisible mallets, the first years were slumping 
unconscious in their seats; some slid right onto the 
floor, others merely hung over the arms of their 
chairs, their tongues lolling out. Most of the people 
watching were laughing; Hermione, however, squared 
her shoulders and marched directly over to where 
Fred and George now stood with clipboards, closely 
observing the unconscious first years. Ron rose 
halfway out of his chair, hovered uncertainly for a 
moment or two, then muttered to Harry, 몮She몭s got it 
under control,몯 before sinking as low in his chair as 
his lanky frame permitted. 

몮That몭s enough!몯 Hermione said forcefully to Fred and 
George, both of whom looked up in mild surprise. 

몮Yeah, you몭re right,몯 said George, nodding, 몮this 
dosage looks strong enough, doesn몭t it?몯 

몮I told you this morning, you can몭t test your rubbish 
on students!몯 

몮We몭re paying them!몯 said Fred indignantly. 

몮I don몭t care, it could be dangerous!몯 

몮Rubbish,몯 said Fred. 

몮Calm down, Hermione, they몭re fine!몯 said Lee 
reassuringly as he walked from first year to first year, 
inserting purple sweets into their open mouths. 

몮Yeah, look, they몭re coming round now,몯 said George. 

| 323Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




A few of the first years were indeed stirring. Several 
looked so shocked to find themselves lying on the 
floor, or dangling off their chairs, that Harry was sure 
Fred and George had not warned them what the 
sweets were going to do. 

몮Feel all right?몯 said George kindly to a small dark- 
haired girl lying at his feet. 

몮I-I think so,몯 she said shakily. 

몮Excellent,몯 said Fred happily, but the next second 
Hermione had snatched both his clipboard and the 
paper bag of Fainting Fancies from his hands. 

몮It is NOT excellent!몯 

몮 몭Course it is, they몭re alive, aren몭t they?몯 said Fred 
angrily. 

몮You can몭t do this, what if you made one of them 
really ill?몯 

몮We몭re not going to make them ill, we몭ve already tested 
them all on ourselves, this is just to see if everyone 
reacts the same 멪 몯 

몮If you don몭t stop doing it, I몭m going to 멪 몯 

몮Put us in detention?몯 said Fred in an I몭d-like-to-see- 
you-try-it voice. 

몮Make us write lines?몯 said George, smirking. 

Onlookers all over the room were laughing. Hermione 
drew herself up to her full height; her eyes were 
narrowed and her bushy hair seemed to crackle with 
electricity. 



| 324Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮No,몯 she said, her voice quivering with anger, 몮but I 
will write to your mother.몯 



몮You wouldn몭t,몯 said George, horrified, taking a step 
back from her. 

몮Oh, yes, I would,몯 said Hermione grimly. 몮I can몭t stop 
you eating the stupid things yourselves, but you몭re 
not giving them to first years.몯 

Fred and George looked thunderstruck. It was clear 
that as far as they were concerned, Hermione 몭s threat 
was way below the belt. With a last threatening look 
at them, she thrust Fred몭s clipboard and the bag of 
Fancies back into his arms and stalked back to her 
chair by the fire. 

Ron was now so low in his seat that his nose was 
roughly level with his knees. 

몮Thank you for your support, Ron,몯 Hermione said 
acidly. 

몮You handled it fine by yourself,몯 Ron mumbled. 

Hermione stared down at her blank piece of 
parchment for a few seconds, then said edgily, 몮Oh, 
it몭s no good, I can몭t concentrate now. I몭m going to 
bed.몯 

She wrenched her bag open; Harry thought she was 
about to put her books away, but instead she pulled 
out two misshapen woolly objects, placed them 
carefully on a table by the fireplace, covered them 
with a few screwed-up bits of parchment and a 
broken quill, and stood back to admire the effect. 

몮What in the name of Merlin are you doing?몯 said 
Ron, watching her as though fearful for her sanity. 

| 325Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮They몭re hats for house-elves,몯 she said briskly, now 
stuffing her books back into her bag. 몮I did them over 
the summer. I몭m a really slow knitter without magic, 
but now I몭m back at school I should be able to make 
lots more.몯 

몮You몭re leaving out hats for the house-elves?몯 said 
Ron slowly. 몮And you몭re covering them up with 
rubbish first?몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Hermione defiantly, swinging her bag onto 
her back. 

몮That몭s not on,몯 said Ron angrily. 몮You몭re trying to 
trick them into picking up the hats. You몭re setting 
them free when they might not want to be free.몯 

몮Of course they want to be free!몯 said Hermione at 
once, though her face was turning pink. 몮Don몭t you 
dare touch those hats, Ron!몯 

She left. Ron waited until she had disappeared 
through the door to the girls몭 dormitories, then 
cleared the rubbish off the woolly hats. 

몮They should at least see what they몭re picking up,몯 he 
said firmly. 몮Anyway ...몯 He rolled up the parchment 
on which he had written the title of Snape몭s essay. 
몮There몭s no point trying to finish this now, I can몭t do it 
without Hermione, I haven몭t got a clue what you몭re 
supposed to do with moonstones, have you?몯 

Harry shook his head, noticing as he did so that the 
ache in his right temple was getting worse. He 
thought of the long essay on giant wars and the pain 
stabbed at him sharply. Knowing perfectly well that 
he would regret not finishing his homework tonight 
when the morning came, he piled his books back into 
his bag. 

| 326Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몬Tm going to bed too.몯 

He passed Seamus on the way to the door leading to 
the dormitories, but did not look at him. Harry had a 
fleeting impression that Seamus had opened his 
mouth to speak, but sped up, and reached the 
soothing peace of the stone spiral staircase without 
having to endure any more provocation. 

The following day dawned just as leaden and rainy as 
the previous one. Hagrid was still absent from the 
staff table at breakfast. 

몮But on the plus side, no Snape today,몯 said Ron 
bracingly. 

Hermione yawned widely and poured herself some 
coffee. She looked mildly pleased about something, 
and when Ron asked her what she had to be so happy 
about, she simply said, 몮The hats have gone. Seems 
the house-elves do want freedom after all.몯 

몮I wouldn몭t bet on it,몯 Ron told her cuttingly. 몮They 
might not count as clothes. They didn몭t look anything 
like hats to me, more like woolly bladders.몯 

Hermione did not speak to him all morning. 

Double Charms was succeeded by double 
Transfiguration. Professor Flitwick and Professor 
McGonagall both spent the first fifteen minutes of 
their lessons lecturing the class on the importance of 
O.W.L.s. 

몮What you must remember,몯 said little Professor 
Flitwick squeakily, perched as ever on a pile of books 
so that he could see over the top of his desk, 몮is that 
these examinations may influence your futures for 
many years to come! If you have not already given 
| 327Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




serious thought to your careers, now is the time to do 
so. And in the meantime, I몭m afraid, we shall be 
working harder than ever to ensure that you all do 
yourselves justice!몯 

They then spent more than an hour reviewing 
Summoning Charms, which according to Professor 
Flitwick were bound to come up in their O.W.L., and 
he rounded off the lesson by setting them their largest 
amount of Charms homework ever. 

It was the same, if not worse, in Transfiguration. 

몮You cannot pass an O.W.L.,몯 said Professor 
McGonagall grimly, 몮without serious application, 
practice, and study. I see no reason why everybody in 
this class should not achieve an O.W.L. in 
Transfiguration as long as they put in the work.몯 
Neville made a sad little disbelieving noise. 몮Yes, you 
too, Longbottom,몯 said Professor McGonagall. 몮There몭s 
nothing wrong with your work except lack of 
confidence. So ... today we are starting Vanishing 
Spells. These are easier than Conjuring Spells, which 
you would not usually attempt until N.E.W.T. level, 
but they are still among the most difficult magic you 
will be tested on in your O.W.L.몯 

She was quite right; Harry found the Vanishing Spells 
horribly difficult. By the end of a double period, 
neither he nor Ron had managed to vanish the snails 
on which they were practicing, though Ron said 
hopefully that he thought his looked a bit paler. 
Hermione, on the other hand, successfully vanished 
her snail on the third attempt, earning her a ten-point 
bonus for Gryffindor from Professor McGonagall. She 
was the only person not given homework; everybody 
else was told to practice the spell overnight, ready for 
a fresh attempt on their snails the following 
afternoon. 

| 328Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Now panicking slightly about the amount of 
homework they had to do, Harry and Ron spent their 
lunch hour in the library looking up the uses of 
moonstones in potion-making. Still angry about Ron몭s 
slur on her woolly hats, Hermione did not join them. 
By the time they reached Care of Magical Creatures in 
the afternoon, Harry몭s head was aching again. 

The day had become cool and breezy, and, as they 
walked down the sloping lawn toward Hagrid몭s cabin 
on the edge of the Forbidden Forest, they felt the 
occasional drop of rain on their faces. Professor 
Grubbly-Plank stood waiting for the class some ten 
yards from Hagrid몭s front door, a long trestle table in 
front of her laden with many twigs. As Harry and Ron 
reached her, a loud shout of laughter sounded behind 
them; turning, they saw Draco Malfoy striding toward 
them, surrounded by his usual gang of Slytherin 
cronies. He had clearly just said something highly 
amusing, because Crabbe, Goyle, Pansy Parkinson, 
and the rest continued to snigger heartily as they 
gathered around the trestle table. Judging by the fact 
that all of them kept looking over at Harry, he was 
able to guess the subject of the joke without too much 
difficulty. 

몮Everyone here?몯 barked Professor Grubbly-Plank, 
once all the Slytherins and Gryffindors had arrived. 
몮Let몭s crack on then 멪 who can tell me what these 
things are called?몯 

She indicated the heap of twigs in front of her. 
Hermione 몭s hand shot into the air. Behind her back, 
Malfoy did a buck-toothed imitation of her jumping 
up and down in eagerness to answer a question. 

Pansy Parkinson gave a shriek of laughter that turned 
almost at once into a scream, as the twigs on the 
table leapt into the air and revealed themselves to be 
what looked like tiny pixieish creatures made of wood, 
| 329Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




each with knobbly brown arms and legs, two twiglike 
fingers at the end of each hand, and a funny, flat, 
barklike face in which a pair of beetle-brown eyes 
glittered. 

몮Oooooh!몯 said Parvati and Lavender, thoroughly 
irritating Harry: Anyone would have thought that 
Hagrid never showed them impressive creatures; 
admittedly the flobberworms had been a bit dull, but 
the salamanders and hippogriffs had been interesting 
enough, and the Blast-Ended Skrewts perhaps too 
much so. 

몮Kindly keep your voices down, girls!몯 said Professor 
Grubbly-Plank sharply, scattering a handful of what 
looked like brown rice among the stick-creatures, who 
immediately fell upon the food. 몮So 멪 anyone know 
the names of these creatures? Miss Granger?몯 

몮Bowtruckles,몯 said Hermione. 몮They몭re tree- 
guardians, usually live in wand-trees.몯 

몮Five points for Gryffindor,몯 said Professor Grubbly- 
Plank. 몮Yes, these are bowtruckles and, as Miss 
Granger rightly says, they generally live in trees 
whose wood is of wand quality. Anybody know what 
they eat?몯 

몮Wood lice,몯 said Hermione promptly, which explained 
why what Harry had taken for grains of brown rice 
were moving. 몮But fairy eggs if they can get them.몯 

몮Good girl, take another five points. So whenever you 
need leaves or wood from a tree in which a 
bowtruckle lodges, it is wise to have a gift of wood lice 
ready to distract or placate it. They may not look 
dangerous, but if angered they will gouge out human 
eyes with their fingers, which, as you can see, are 
very sharp and not at all desirable near the eyeballs. 
| 330Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




So if you몭d like to gather closer, take a few wood lice 
and a bowtruckle 멪 I have enough here for one 
between three 멪 you can study them more closely. I 
want a sketch from each of you with all body parts 
labeled by the end of the lesson.몯 

The class surged forward around the trestle table. 
Harry deliberately circled around the back so that he 
ended up right next to Professor Grubbly-Plank. 

몮Where몭s Hagrid?몯 he asked her, while everyone else 
was choosing bowtruckles. 

몮Never you mind,몯 said Professor Grubbly-Plank 
repressively, which had been her attitude last time 
Hagrid had failed to turn up for a class too. Smirking 
all over his pointed face, Draco Malfoy leaned across 
Harry and seized the largest bowtruckle. 

몮Maybe,몯 said Malfoy in an undertone, so that only 
Harry could hear him, 몮the stupid great oaf몭s got 
himself badly injured.몯 

몮Maybe you will if you don몭t shut up,몯 said Harry out 
of the side of his mouth. 

몮Maybe he몭s been messing with stuff that몭s too big for 
him, if you get my drift.몯 

Malfoy walked away, smirking over his shoulder at 
Harry, who suddenly felt sick. Did Malfoy know 
something? His father was a Death Eater, after all; 
what if he had information about Hagrid 몭s fate that 
had not yet reached the Order몭s ears? He hurried 
back around the table to Ron and Hermione, who 
were squatting on the grass some distance away and 
attempting to persuade a bowtruckle to remain still 
long enough to draw it. Harry pulled out parchment 



| 331Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




and quill, crouched down beside the others, and 
related in a whisper what Malfoy had just said. 

몮Dumbledore would know if something had happened 
to Hagrid,몯 said Hermione at once. 몮It몭s just playing 
into Malfoy몭s hands to look worried, it tells him we 
don몭t know exactly what몭s going on. We몭ve got to 
ignore him, Harry. Here, hold the bowtruckle for a 
moment, just so I can draw its face...몯 

몮Yes,몯 came Malfoy몭s clear drawl from the group 
nearest them, 몮Father was talking to the Minister just 
a couple of days ago, you know, and it sounds as 
though the Ministry몭s really determined to crack down 
on substandard teaching in this place. So even if that 
overgrown moron does show up again, he몭ll probably 
be sent packing straight away.몯 

몮OUCH!몯 

Harry had gripped the bowtruckle so hard that it had 
almost snapped; it had just taken a great retaliatory 
swipe at his hand with its sharp fingers, leaving two 
long deep cuts there. Harry dropped it; Crabbe and 
Goyle, who had already been guffawing at the idea of 
Hagrid being sacked, laughed still harder as the 
bowtruckle set off at full tilt toward the forest, a little, 
moving stickman soon swallowed up by the tree roots. 
When the bell echoed distantly over the grounds 
Harry rolled up his bloodstained bowtruckle picture 
and marched off to Herbology with his hand wrapped 
in a handkerchief of Hermione 몭s and Malfoy몭s derisive 
laughter still ringing in his ears. 

몮If he calls Hagrid a moron one more time ...몯 snarled 
Harry. 



| 332Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Harry, don몭t go picking a row with Malfoy, don몭t 
forget, he몭s a prefect now, he could make life difficult 
for you...몯 

몮Wow, I wonder what it몭d be like to have a difficult 
life?몯 said Harry sarcastically. Ron laughed, but 
Hermione frowned. Together they traipsed across the 
vegetable patch. The sky still appeared unable to 
make up its mind whether it wanted to rain or not. 

몮I just wish Hagrid would hurry up and get back, 
that몭s all,몯 said Harry in a low voice, as they reached 
the greenhouses. 몮And don몭t say that Grubbly-Plank 
woman몭s a better teacher!몯 he added threateningly. 

몮I wasn몭t going to,몯 said Hermione calmly. 

몮Because she몭ll never be as good as Hagrid,몯 said 
Harry firmly, fully aware that he had just experienced 
an exemplary Care of Magical Creatures lesson and 
was thoroughly annoyed about it. 

The door of the nearest greenhouse opened and some 
fourth years spilled out of it, including Ginny. 

몮Hi,몯 she said brightly as she passed. A few seconds 
later, Luna Lovegood emerged, trailing behind the rest 
of the class, a smudge of earth on her nose and her 
hair tied in a knot on the top of her head. When she 
saw Harry, her prominent eyes seemed to bulge 
excitedly and she made a beeline straight for him. 
Many of his classmates turned curiously to watch. 
Luna took a great breath and then said, without so 
much as a preliminary hello: 몮I believe He-Who-Must- 
Not-Be-Named is back, and I believe you fought him 
and escaped from him.몯 

몮Er 멪 right,몯 said Harry awkwardly. Luna was 
wearing what looked like a pair of orange radishes for 

| 333Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




earrings, a fact that Parvati and Lavender seemed to 
have noticed, as they were both giggling and pointing 
at her earlobes. 

몮You can laugh!몯 Luna said, her voice rising, 
apparently under the impression that Parvati and 
Lavender were laughing at what she had said rather 
than what she was wearing. 몮But people used to 
believe there were no such things as the Blibbering 
Humdinger or the Crumple-Horned Snorkack!몯 

몮Well, they were right, weren몭t they?몯 said Hermione 
impatiently. 몮There weren몭t any such things as the 
Blibbering Humdinger or the Crumple-Horned 
Snorkack.몯 

Luna gave her a withering look and flounced away, 
radishes swinging madly. Parvati and Lavender were 
not the only ones hooting with laughter now. 

몮D몭you mind not offending the only people who believe 
me?몯 Harry asked Hermione as they made their way 
into class. 

몮Oh, for heaven몭s sake, Harry, you can do better than 
her,몯 said Hermione. 몮Ginny몭s told me all about her, 
apparently she몭ll only believe in things as long as 
there몭s no proof at all. Well, I wouldn몭t expect 
anything else from someone whose father runs The 
Quibbler.몯 

Harry thought of the sinister winged horses he had 
seen on the night he had arrived and how Luna had 
said she could see them too. His spirits sank slightly. 
Had she been lying? But before he could devote much 
more thought to the matter, Ernie Macmillan had 
stepped up to him. 



| 334Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I want you to know, Potter,몯 he said in a loud, 
carrying voice, 몮that it몭s not only weirdos who support 
you. I personally believe you one hundred percent. My 
family have always stood firm behind Dumbledore, 
and so do I.몯 

몮Er 멪 thanks very much, Ernie,몯 said Harry, taken 
aback but pleased. Ernie might be pompous on 
occasions like these, but Harry was in a mood to 
deeply appreciate a vote of confidence from somebody 
who was not wearing radishes in their ears. Ernie몭s 
words had certainly wiped the smile from Lavender 
Brown몭s face and, as he turned to talk to Ron and 
Hermione, Harry caught Seamus몭s expression, which 
looked both confused and defiant. 

To nobody몭s surprise, Professor Sprout started their 
lesson by lecturing them about the importance of 
O.W.L.s. Harry wished all the teachers would stop 
doing this; he was starting to get an anxious, twisted 
feeling in his stomach every time he remembered how 
much homework he had to do, a feeling that 
worsened dramatically when Professor Sprout gave 
them yet another essay at the end of class. Tired and 
smelling strongly of dragon dung, Professor Sprout몭s 
preferred brand of fertilizer, the Gryffindors trooped 
back up to the castle an hour and a half later, none of 
them talking very much; it had been another long 
day. 

As Harry was starving, and he had his first detention 
with Umbridge at five o몭clock, he headed straight for 
dinner without dropping off his bag in Gryffindor 
Tower so that he could bolt something down before 
facing whatever she had in store for him. He had 
barely reached the entrance of the Great Hall, 
however, when a loud and angry voice said, 몮Oy, 
Potter!몯 



| 335Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮What now?몯 he muttered wearily, turning to face 
Angelina Johnson, who looked as though she was in a 
towering temper. 

몮I몭ll tell you what now,몯 she said, marching straight 
up to him and poking him hard in the chest with her 
finger. 몮How come you몭ve landed yourself in detention 
for five o몭clock on Friday?몯 

몮What?몯 said Harry. 몮Why ... oh yeah, Keeper tryouts!몯 

몮Now he remembers!몯 snarled Angelina. 몮Didn몭t I tell 
you I wanted to do a tryout with the whole team, and 
find someone who fitted in with everyone? Didn몭t I tell 
you I몭d booked the Quidditch pitch specially? And 
now you몭ve decided you몭re not going to be there!몯 

몮I didn몭t decide not to be there!몯 said Harry, stung by 
the injustice of these words. 몮I got detention from that 
Umbridge woman, just because I told her the truth 
about You-Know-Who 멪 몯 

몮Well, you can just go straight to her and ask her to 
let you off on Friday,몯 said Angelina fiercely, 몮and I 
don몭t care how you do it, tell her You-Know-Who 몭s a 
figment of your imagination if you like, just make sure 
you몭re therel몯 

She stormed away. 

몮You know what?몯 Harry said to Ron and Hermione as 
they entered the Great Hall. 몮I think we몭d better check 
with Puddlemere United whether Oliver Wood몭s been 
killed during a training session, because she seems to 
be channeling his spirit.몯 

몮What d몭you reckon are the odds of Umbridge letting 
you off on Friday?몯 said Ron skeptically, as they sat 
down at the Gryffindor table. 

| 336Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Less than zero,몯 said Harry glumly, tipping lamb 
chops onto his plate and starting to eat. 몮Better try, 
though, hadn몭t I? I몭ll offer to do two more detentions 
or something, I dunno...몯 He swallowed a mouthful of 
potato and added, 몮I hope she doesn몭t keep me too 
long this evening. You realize we몭ve got to write three 
essays, practice Vanishing Spells for McGonagall, 
work out a countercharm for Flitwick, finish the 
bowtruckle drawing, and start that stupid dream 
diary for Trelawney?몯 

Ron moaned and for some reason glanced up at the 
ceiling. 

몮And it looks like it몭s going to rain.몯 

몮What몭s that got to do with our homework?몯 said 
Hermione, her eyebrows raised. 

몮Nothing,몯 said Ron at once, his ears reddening. 

At five to five Harry bade the other two good-bye and 
set off for Umbridge몭s office on the third floor. When 
he knocked on the door she said, 몮Come in,몯 in a 
sugary voice. He entered cautiously, looking around. 

He had known this office under three of its previous 
occupants. In the days when Gilderoy Lockhart had 
lived here it had been plastered in beaming portraits 
of its owner. When Lupin had occupied it, it was likely 
you would meet some fascinating Dark creature in a 
cage or tank if you came to call. In the impostor 
Moody몭s days it had been packed with various 
instruments and artifacts for the detection of 
wrongdoing and concealment. 

Now, however, it looked totally unrecognizable. The 
surfaces had all been draped in lacy covers and 
cloths. There were several vases full of dried flowers, 

| 337Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




each residing on its own doily, and on one of the walls 
was a collection of ornamental plates, each decorated 
with a large technicolor kitten wearing a different bow 
around its neck. These were so foul that Harry stared 
at them, transfixed, until Professor Umbridge spoke 
again. 

몮Good evening, Mr. Potter.몯 

Harry started and looked around. He had not noticed 
her at first because she was wearing a luridly 
flowered set of robes that blended only too well with 
the tablecloth on the desk behind her. 

몮Evening,몯 Harry said stiffly. 

몮Well, sit down,몯 she said, pointing toward a small 
table draped in lace beside which she had drawn up a 
straight-backed chair. A piece of blank parchment lay 
on the table, apparently waiting for him. 

몮Er,몯 said Harry, without moving. 몮Professor 
Umbridge? Er 멪 before we start, I-I wanted to ask 
you a ... a favor.몯 

Her bulging eyes narrowed. 

몮Oh yes?몯 

몮Well I몭m ... I몭m on the Gryffindor Quidditch team. 

And I was supposed to be at the tryouts for the new 
Keeper at five o몭clock on Friday and I was 멪 was 
wondering whether I could skip detention that night 
and do it 멪 do it another night ... instead ...몯 

He knew long before he reached the end of his 
sentence that it was no good. 



| 338Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Oh no,몯 said Umbridge, smiling so widely that she 
looked as though she had just swallowed a 
particularly juicy fly. 몮Oh no, no, no. This is your 
punishment for spreading evil, nasty, attention- 
seeking stories, Mr. Potter, and punishments 
certainly cannot be adjusted to suit the guilty one몭s 
convenience. No, you will come here at five o몭clock 
tomorrow, and the next day, and on Friday too, and 
you will do your detentions as planned. I think it 
rather a good thing that you are missing something 
you really want to do. It ought to reinforce the lesson I 
am trying to teach you.몯 

Harry felt the blood surge to his head and heard a 
thumping noise in his ears. So he told evil, nasty, 
attention-seeking stories, did he? 

She was watching him with her head slightly to one 
side, still smiling widely, as though she knew exactly 
what he was thinking and was waiting to see whether 
he would start shouting again. With a massive effort 
Harry looked away from her, dropped his schoolbag 
beside the straight-backed chair, and sat down. 

몮There,몯 said Umbridge sweetly, 몮we몭re getting better 
at controlling our temper already, aren몭t we? Now, you 
are going to be doing some lines for me, Mr. Potter. 

No, not with your quill,몯 she added, as Harry bent 
down to open his bag. 몮You몭re going to be using a 
rather special one of mine. Here you are.몯 

She handed him a long, thin black quill with an 
unusually sharp point. 

몮I want you to write 몬 I must not tell lies,몭 몯 she told him 
softly. 

몮How many times?몯 Harry asked, with a creditable 
imitation of politeness. 

| 339Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Oh, as long as it takes for the message to sink in,몯 
said Umbridge sweetly. 몮Off you go.몯 

She moved over to her desk, sat down, and bent over 
a stack of parchment that looked like essays for 
marking. Harry raised the sharp black quill and then 
realized what was missing. 

몮You haven몭t given me any ink,몯 he said. 

몮Oh, you won몭t need ink,몯 said Professor Umbridge 
with the merest suggestion of a laugh in her voice. 

Harry placed the point of the quill on the paper and 
wrote: I must not tell lies. 

He let out a gasp of pain. The words had appeared on 
the parchment in what appeared to be shining red 
ink. At the same time, the words had appeared on the 
back of Harry몭s right hand, cut into his skin as 
though traced there by a scalpel 멪 yet even as he 
stared at the shining cut, the skin healed over again, 
leaving the place where it had been slightly redder 
than before but quite smooth. 

Harry looked around at Umbridge. She was watching 
him, her wide, toadlike mouth stretched in a smile. 

몮Yes?몯 

몮Nothing,몯 said Harry quietly. 

He looked back at the parchment, placed the quill 
upon it once more, wrote I must not tell lies, and felt 
the searing pain on the back of his hand for a second 
time; once again the words had been cut into his 
skin, once again they healed over seconds later. 



| 340Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




And on it went. Again and again Harry wrote the 
words on the parchment in what he soon came to 
realize was not ink, but his own blood. And again and 
again the words were cut into the back of his hand, 
healed, and then reappeared the next time he set quill 
to parchment. 

Darkness fell outside Umbridge몭s window. Harry did 
not ask when he would be allowed to stop. He did not 
even check his watch. He knew she was watching him 
for signs of weakness and he was not going to show 
any, not even if he had to sit here all night, cutting 
open his own hand with this quill... 

몮Come here,몯 she said, after what seemed hours. 

He stood up. His hand was stinging painfully. When 
he looked down at it he saw that the cut had healed, 
but that the skin there was red raw. 

몮Hand,몯 she said. 

He extended it. She took it in her own. Harry 
repressed a shudder as she touched him with her 
thick, stubby fingers on which she wore a number of 
ugly old rings. 

몮Tut, tut, I don몭t seem to have made much of an 
impression yet,몯 she said, smiling. 몮Well, we몭ll just 
have to try again tomorrow evening, won몭t we? You 
may go.몯 

Harry left her office without a word. The school was 
quite deserted; it was surely past midnight. He 
walked slowly up the corridor then, when he had 
turned the corner and was sure that she would not 
hear him, broke into a run. 



| 341Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He had not had time to practice Vanishing Spells, had 
not written a single dream in his dream diary, and 
had not finished the drawing of the bowtruckle, nor 
had he written his essays. He skipped breakfast next 
morning to scribble down a couple of made-up 
dreams for Divination, their first lesson, and was 
surprised to find a disheveled Ron keeping him 
company. 

몮How come you didn몭t do it last night?몯 Harry asked, 
as Ron stared wildly around the common room for 
inspiration. Ron, who had been fast asleep when 
Harry got back to the dormitory, muttered something 
about 몮doing other stuff,몯 bent low over his 
parchment, and scrawled a few words. 

몮That몭ll have to do,몯 he said, slamming the diary shut, 
몮I몭ve said I dreamed I was buying a new pair of shoes, 
she can몭t make anything weird out of that, can she?몯 

They hurried off to North Tower together. 

몮How was detention with Umbridge, anyway? What 
did she make you do?몯 

Harry hesitated for a fraction of a second, then said, 
몮Lines.몯 

몮That몭s not too bad, then, eh?몯 said Ron. 

몮Nope,몯 said Harry. 

몮Hey 멪 I forgot 멪 did she let you off for Friday?몯 

몮No,몯 said Harry. 

Ron groaned sympathetically. 



| 342Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




It was another bad day for Harry; he was one of the 
worst in Transfiguration, not having practiced 
Vanishing Spells at all. He had to give up his lunch 
hour to complete the picture of the bowtruckle, and 
meanwhile, Professors McGonagall, Grubbly-Plank, 
and Sinistra gave them yet more homework, which he 
had no prospect of finishing that evening because of 
his second detention with Umbridge. To cap it all, 
Angelina Johnson tracked him down at dinner again 
and, on learning that he would not be able to attend 
Friday몭s Keeper tryouts, told him she was not at all 
impressed by his attitude and that she expected 
players who wished to remain on the team to put 
training before their other commitments. 

몮I몭m in detention!몯 Harry yelled after her as she 
stalked away. 몮D몭you think I몭d rather be stuck in a 
room with that old toad or playing Quidditch?몯 

몮At least it몭s only lines,몯 said Hermione consolingly, as 
Harry sank back onto his bench and looked down at 
his steak-and-kidney pie, which he no longer fancied 
very much. 몮It몭s not as if it몭s a dreadful punishment, 
really...몯 

Harry opened his mouth, closed it again, and nodded. 
He was not really sure why he was not telling Ron 
and Hermione exactly what was happening in 
Umbridge 몭s room: He only knew that he did not want 
to see their looks of horror; that would make the 
whole thing seem worse and therefore more difficult 
to face. He also felt dimly that this was between 
himself and Umbridge, a private battle of wills, and he 
was not going to give her the satisfaction of hearing 
that he had complained about it. 

몮I can몭t believe how much homework we몭ve got,몯 said 
Ron miserably. 



| 343Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Well, why didn몭t you do any last night?몯 Hermione 
asked him. 몮Where were you anyway?몯 



몮I was ... I fancied a walk,몯 said Ron shiftily. 

Harry had the distinct impression that he was not 
alone in concealing things at the moment. 

k k k 



The second detention was just as bad as the previous 
one. The skin on the back of Harry몭s hand became 
irritated more quickly now, red and inflamed; Harry 
thought it unlikely to keep healing as effectively for 
long. Soon the cut would remain etched in his hand 
and Umbridge would, perhaps, be satisfied. He let no 
moan of pain escape him, however, and from the 
moment of entering the room to the moment of his 
dismissal, again past midnight, he said nothing but 
몮Good evening몯 and 몮Good night.몯 

His homework situation, however, was now desperate, 
and when he returned to the Gryffindor common 
room he did not, though exhausted, go to bed, but 
opened his books and began Snape몭s moonstone 
essay. It was half-past two by the time he had 
finished it. He knew he had done a poor job, but there 
was no help for it; unless he had something to give in 
he would be in detention with Snape next. He then 
dashed off answers to the questions Professor 
McGonagall had set them, cobbled together 
something on the proper handling of bowtruckles for 
Professor Grubbly-Plank, and staggered up to bed, 
where he fell fully clothed on top of the bed covers 
and fell asleep immediately. 

Thursday passed in a haze of tiredness. Ron seemed 
very sleepy too, though Harry could not see why he 

| 344Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




should be. Harry몭s third detention passed in the same 
way as the previous two, except that after two hours 
the words 몮I must not tell lies몯 did not fade from the 
back of Harry몭s hand, but remained scratched there, 
oozing droplets of blood. The pause in the pointed 
quill몭s scratching made Professor Umbridge look up. 

몮Ah,몯 she said softly, moving around her desk to 
examine his hand herself. 몮Good. That ought to serve 
as a reminder to you, oughtn몭t it? You may leave for 
tonight.몯 

몮Do I still have to come back tomorrow?몯 said Harry, 
picking up his schoolbag with his left hand rather 
than his smarting right. 

몮Oh yes,몯 said Professor Umbridge, smiling widely as 
before. 몮Yes, I think we can etch the message a little 
deeper with another evening몭s work.몯 

He had never before considered the possibility that 
there might be another teacher in the world he hated 
more than Snape, but as he walked back toward 
Gryffindor Tower he had to admit he had found a 
contender. She몭s evil, he thought, as he climbed a 
staircase to the seventh floor, she몭s an evil, twisted, 
mad, old 멪 

몮Ron?몯 

He had reached the top of the stairs, turned right, 
and almost walked into Ron, who was lurking behind 
a statue of Lachlan the Lanky, clutching his 
broomstick. He gave a great leap of surprise when he 
saw Harry and attempted to hide his new Cleansweep 
Eleven behind his back. 

몮What are you doing?몯 



| 345Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Er 멪 nothing. What are you doing?몯 

Harry frowned at him. 

몮Come on, you can tell me! What are you hiding here 
for?몯 

몮I몭m 멪 I몭m hiding from Fred and George, if you must 
know,몯 said Ron. 몮They just went past with a bunch 
of first years, I bet they몭re testing stuff on them again, 

I mean, they can몭t do it in the common room now, can 
they, not with Hermione there.몯 

He was talking in a very fast, feverish way. 

몮But what have you got your broom for, you haven몭t 
been flying, have you?몯 Harry asked. 

몮I 멪 well 멪 well, okay, I몭ll tell you, but don몭t laugh, all 
right?몯 Ron said defensively, turning redder with 
every second. 몮I-I thought I몭d try out for Gryffindor 
Keeper now I몭ve got a decent broom. There. Go on. 
Laugh.몯 

몮I몭m not laughing,몯 said Harry. Ron blinked. 몮It몭s a 
brilliant idea! It몭d be really cool if you got on the team! 
I몭ve never seen you play Keeper, are you good?몯 

몮I몭m not bad,몯 said Ron, who looked immensely 
relieved at Harry몭s reaction. 몮Charlie, Fred, and 
George always made me Keep for them when they 
were training during the holidays.몯 

몮So you몭ve been practicing tonight?몯 

몮Every evening since Tuesday ... just on my own, 
though, I몭ve been trying to bewitch Quaffles to fly at 
me, but it hasn몭t been easy and I don몭t know how 
much use it몭ll be.몯 Ron looked nervous and anxious. 

| 346Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Fred and George are going to laugh themselves 
stupid when I turn up for the tryouts. They haven몭t 
stopped taking the mickey out of me since I got made 
a prefect.몯 

몮I wish I was going to be there,몯 said Harry bitterly, as 
they set off together toward the common room. 

몮Yeah, so do 멪 Harry, what몭s that on the back of your 
hand?몯 

Harry, who had just scratched his nose with his free 
right hand, tried to hide it, but had as much success 
as Ron with his Cleans weep. 

몮It몭s just a cut 멪 it몭s nothing 멪 it몭s 멪 몯 

But Ron had grabbed Harry몭s forearm and pulled the 
back of Harry몭s hand up level with his eyes. There 
was a pause, during which he stared at the words 
carved into the skin, then he released Harry, looking 
sick. 

몮I thought you said she was giving you lines?몯 

Harry hesitated, but after all, Ron had been honest 
with him, so he told Ron the truth about the hours he 
had been spending in Umbridge몭s office. 

몮The old hag!몯 Ron said in a revolted whisper as they 
came to a halt in front of the Fat Lady, who was 
dozing peacefully with her head against her frame. 
몮She몭s sick! Go to McGonagall, say something!몯 

몮No,몯 said Harry at once. 몮I몭m not giving her the 
satisfaction of knowing she몭s got to me.몯 

몮Got to you? You can몭t let her get away with this!몯 



| 347Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I don몭t know how much power McGonagall몭s got over 
her,몯 said Harry. 

몮Dumbledore, then, tell Dumbledore!몯 

몮No,몯 said Harry flatly. 

몮Why not?몯 

몮He몭s got enough on his mind,몯 said Harry, but that 
was not the true reason. He was not going to go to 
Dumbledore for help when Dumbledore had not 
spoken to him once since last June. 

몮Well, I reckon you should 멪 몯 Ron began, but he was 
interrupted by the Fat Lady, who had been watching 
them sleepily and now burst out, 몮Are you going to 
give me the password or will I have to stay awake all 
night waiting for you to finish your conversation?몯 

Friday dawned sullen and sodden as the rest of the 
week. Though Harry glanced toward the staff table 
automatically when he entered the Great Hall, it was 
without real hope of seeing Hagrid and he turned his 
mind immediately to his more pressing problems, 
such as the mountainous pile of homework he had to 
do and the prospect of yet another detention with 
Umbridge. 

Two things sustained Harry that day. One was the 
thought that it was almost the weekend; the other 
was that, dreadful though his final detention with 
Umbridge was sure to be, he had a distant view of the 
Quidditch pitch from her window and might, with 
luck, be able to see something of Ron몭s tryout. These 
were rather feeble rays of light, it was true, but Harry 
was grateful for anything that might lighten his 
present darkness; he had never had a worse first 
week of term at Hogwarts. 

| 348Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




At five o몭clock that evening he knocked on Professor 
Umbridge몭s office door for what he sincerely hoped 
would be the final time, was told to enter and did so. 
The blank parchment lay ready for him on the lace- 
covered table, the pointed black quill beside it. 

몮You know what to do, Mr. Potter,몯 said Umbridge, 
smiling sweetly over at him. 

Harry picked up the quill and glanced through the 
window. If he just shifted his chair an inch or so to 
the right . . . On the pretext of shifting himself closer to 
the table he managed it. He now had a distant view of 
the Gryffindor Quidditch team soaring up and down 
the pitch, while half a dozen black figures stood at the 
foot of the three high goalposts, apparently awaiting 
their turn to Keep. It was impossible to tell which one 
was Ron at this distance. 

I must not tell lies, Harry wrote. The cut in the back of 
his right hand opened and began to bleed afresh. 

I must not tell lies. The cut dug deeper, stinging and 
smarting. 

I must not tell lies. Blood trickled down his wrist. 

He chanced another glance out of the window. 
Whoever was defending the goalposts now was doing 
a very poor job indeed. Katie Bell scored twice in the 
few seconds Harry dared watch. Hoping very much 
that the Keeper wasn몭t Ron, he dropped his eyes back 
to the parchment dotted with blood. 

I must not tell lies. 

I must not tell lies. 



| 349Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He looked up whenever he thought he could risk it, 
when he could hear the scratching of Umbridge몭s quill 
or the opening of a desk drawer. The third person to 
try out was pretty good, the fourth was terrible, the 
fifth dodged a Bludger exceptionally well but then 
fumbled an easy save. The sky was darkening so that 
Harry doubted he would be able to watch the sixth 
and seventh people at all. 

I must not tell lies. 

I must not tell lies. 

The parchment was now shining with drops of blood 
from the back of his hand, which was searing with 
pain. When he next looked up, night had fallen and 
the Quidditch pitch was no longer visible. 

몮Let몭s see if you몭ve gotten the message yet, shall we?몯 
said Umbridge몭s soft voice half an hour later. 

She moved toward him, stretching out her short be- 
ringed fingers for his arm. And then, as she took hold 
of him to examine the words now cut into his skin, 
pain seared, not across the back of his hand, but 
across the scar on his forehead. At the same time, he 
had a most peculiar sensation somewhere around his 
midriff. 

He wrenched his arm out of her grip and leapt to his 
feet, staring at her. She looked back at him, a smile 
stretching her wide, slack mouth. 

몮Yes, it hurts, doesn몭t it?몯 she said softly. 

He did not answer. His heart was thumping very hard 
and fast. Was she talking about his hand or did she 
know what he had just felt in his forehead? 



| 350Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Well, I think I몭ve made my point, Mr. Potter. You may 
go.몯 

He caught up his schoolbag and left the room as 
quickly as he could. 

Stay calm, he told himself as he sprinted up the 
stairs. Stay calm, it doesn몭t necessarily mean what 
you think it means... 

몮 Mimbulus mimbletoniaV 몭 he gasped at the Fat Lady, 
who swung forward once more. 

A roar of sound greeted him. Ron came running 
toward him, beaming all over his face and slopping 
butterbeer down his front from the goblet he was 
clutching. 

몮Harry, I did it, I몭m in, I몭m Keeper!몯 

몮What? Oh 멪 brilliant!몯 said Harry, trying to smile 
naturally, while his heart continued to race and his 
hand throbbed and bled. 

몮Have a butterbeer.몯 Ron pressed a bottle onto him. 몮I 
can몭t believe it 멪 where몭s Hermione gone?몯 

몮She몭s there,몯 said Fred, who was also swigging 
butterbeer, and pointed to an armchair by the fire. 
Hermione was dozing in it, her drink tipping 
precariously in her hand. 

몮Well, she said she was pleased when I told her,몯 said 
Ron, looking slightly put out. 

몮Let her sleep,몯 said George hastily. It was a few 
moments before Harry noticed that several of the first 
years gathered around them bore unmistakable signs 
of recent nosebleeds. 

| 351Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Come here, Ron, and see if Oliver몭s old robes fit you,몯 
called Katie Bell. 몮We can take off his name and put 
yours on instead...몯 

As Ron moved away, Angelina came striding up to 
Harry. 

몮Sorry I was a bit short with you earlier, Potter,몯 she 
said abruptly. 몮It몭s stressful, this managing lark, you 
know, I몭m starting to think I was a bit hard on Wood 
sometimes.몯 She was watching Ron over the rim of 
her goblet with a slight frown on her face. 

몮Look, I know he몭s your best mate, but he몭s not 
fabulous,몯 she said bluntly. 몮I think with a bit of 
training he몭ll be all right, though. He comes from a 
family of good Quidditch players. I몭m banking on him 
turning out to have a bit more talent than he showed 
today, to be honest. Vicky Frobisher and Geoffrey 
Hooper both flew better this evening, but Hooper몭s a 
real whiner, he몭s always moaning about something or 
other, and Vicky몭s involved in all sorts of societies, 
she admitted herself that if training clashed with her 
Charm Club she몭d put Charms first. Anyway, we몭re 
having a practice session at two o몭clock tomorrow, so 
just make sure you몭re there this time. And do me a 
favor and help Ron as much as you can, okay?몯 

He nodded and Angelina strolled back to Alicia 
Spinnet. Harry moved over to sit next to Hermione, 
who awoke with a jerk as he put down his bag. 

몮Oh, Harry, it몭s you... Good about Ron, isn몭t it?몯 she 
said blearily. 몮I몭m just so 멪 so 멪 so tired,몯 she 
yawned. 몮I was up until one o몭clock making more 
hats. They몭re disappearing like mad!몯 



| 352Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




And sure enough, now that he looked, Harry saw that 
there were woolly hats concealed all around the room 
where unwary elves might accidentally pick them up. 

몮Great,몯 said Harry distractedly; if he did not tell 
somebody soon, he would burst. 몮Listen, Hermione, I 
was just up in Umbridge몭s office and she touched my 
arm ...몯 

Hermione listened closely. When Harry had finished 
she said slowly, 몮You몭re worried that You-Know- Who몭s 
controlling her like he controlled Quirrell?몯 

몮Well,몯 said Harry, dropping his voice, 몮it몭s a 
possibility, isn몭t it?몯 

몮I suppose so,몯 said Hermione, though she sounded 
unconvinced. 몮But I don몭t think he can be possessing 
her the way he possessed Quirrell, I mean, he몭s 
properly alive again now, isn몭t he, he몭s got his own 
body, he wouldn몭t need to share someone else몭s. He 
could have her under the Imperius Curse, I 
suppose...몯 

Harry watched Fred, George, and Lee Jordan juggling 
empty butterbeer bottles for a moment. Then 
Hermione said, 몮But last year your scar hurt when 
nobody was touching you, and didn몭t Dumbledore say 
it had to do with what You- Know- Who was feeling at 
the time? I mean, maybe this hasn몭t got anything to 
do with Umbridge at all, maybe it몭s just coincidence it 
happened while you were with her?몯 

몮She몭s evil,몯 said Harry flatly. 몮Twisted.몯 

몮She몭s horrible, yes, but ... Harry, I think you ought to 
tell Dumbledore your scar hurt.몯 



| 353Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




It was the second time in two days he had been 
advised to go to Dumbledore and his answer to 
Hermione was just the same as his answer to Ron. 

몮I몭m not bothering him with this. Like you just said, 
it몭s not a big deal. It몭s been hurting on and off all 
summer 멪 it was just a bit worse tonight, that몭s all 멪 



몮Harry, I몭m sure Dumbledore would want to be 
bothered by this 멪 몯 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry, before he could stop himself, 
몮that몭s the only bit of me Dumbledore cares about, 
isn몭t it, my scar?몯 

몮Don몭t say that, it몭s not true!몯 

몮I think I몭ll write and tell Sirius about it, see what he 
thinks 멪 몯 

몮Harry, you can몭t put something like that in a letter!몯 
said Hermione, looking alarmed. 몮Don몭t you 
remember, Moody told us to be careful what we put in 
writing! We just can몭t guarantee owls aren몭t being 
intercepted anymore!몯 

몮All right, all right, I won몭t tell him, then!몯 said Harry 
irritably. He got to his feet. 몮I몭m going to bed. Tell Ron 
for me, will you?몯 

몮Oh no,몯 said Hermione, looking relieved, 몮if you몭re 
going that means I can go without being rude too, I몭m 
absolutely exhausted and I want to make some more 
hats tomorrow. Listen, you can help me if you like, 
it몭s quite fun, I몭m getting better, I can do patterns and 
bobbles and all sorts of things now.몯 



| 354Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry looked into her face, which was shining with 
glee, and tried to look as though he was vaguely 
tempted by this offer. 

몮Er ... no, I don몭t think I will, thanks,몯 he said. 몮Er 멪 
not tomorrow. I몭ve got loads of homework to do...몯 

And he traipsed off to the boys몭 stairs, leaving her 
looking slightly disappointed behind him. 



| 355Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






PERCY AND PADFOOT 

Harry was the first to awake in his dormitory next 
morning. He lay for a moment watching dust swirl in 
the chink of sunlight falling through the gap in his 
four-poster몭s hangings and savored the thought that 
it was Saturday. The first week of term seemed to 
have dragged on forever, like one gigantic History of 
Magic lesson. 

Judging by the sleepy silence and the freshly minted 
look of that beam of sunlight, it was just after 
daybreak. He pulled open the curtains around his 
bed, got up, and started to dress. The only sound 
apart from the distant twittering of birds was the 
slow, deep breathing of his fellow Gryffindors. He 
opened his schoolbag carefully, pulled out parchment 
and quill, and headed out of the dormitory for the 
common room. 

Making straight for his favorite squashy old armchair 
beside the now extinct fire, Harry settled himself 
down comfortably and unrolled his parchment while 
looking around the room. The detritus of crumpled-up 

| 356Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



bits of parchment, old Gobstones, empty ingredient 
jars, and candy wrappers that usually covered the 
common room at the end of each day was gone, as 
were all Hermione몭s elf hats. Wondering vaguely how 
many elves had now been set free whether they 
wanted to be or not, Harry uncorked his ink bottle, 
dipped his quill into it, and then held it suspended an 
inch above the smooth yellowish surface of his 
parchment, thinking hard... But after a minute or so 
he found himself staring into the empty grate, at a 
complete loss for what to say. 

He could now appreciate how hard it had been for 
Ron and Hermione to write him letters over the 
summer. How was he supposed to tell Sirius 
everything that had happened over the past week and 
pose all the questions he was burning to ask without 
giving potential letter-thieves a lot of information he 
did not want them to have? 

He sat quite motionless for a while, gazing into the 
fireplace, then, finally coming to a decision, he dipped 
his quill into the ink bottle once more and set it 
resolutely upon the parchment. 

Dear Snuffles, 

Hope you몭re okay, the first week back here몭s been 
terrible, I몭m really glad it몭s the weekend. 

We몭ve got a new Defense Against the Dark Arts 
teacher, Professor Umbridge. She몭s nearly as nice as 
your mum. I몭m writing because that thing I wrote to 
you about last summer happened again last night 
when I was doing a detention with Umbridge. 

We몭re all missing our biggest friend, we hope he몭ll be 
back soon. 



| 357Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Please write back quickly. 

Best, 

Harry 

Harry reread this letter several times, trying to see it 
from the point of view of an outsider. He could not see 
how they would know what he was talking about 멪 or 
who he was talking to 멪 just from reading this letter. 
He did hope Sirius would pick up the hint about 
Hagrid and tell them when he might be back: Harry 
did not want to ask directly in case it drew too much 
attention to what Hagrid might be up to while he was 
not at Hogwarts. 

Considering it was a very short letter it had taken a 
long time to write; sunlight had crept halfway across 
the room while he had been working on it, and he 
could now hear distant sounds of movement from the 
dormitories above. Sealing the parchment carefully he 
climbed through the portrait hole and headed off for 
the Owlery. 

몮I would not go that way if I were you,몯 said Nearly 
Headless Nick, drifting disconcertingly through a wall 
just ahead of him as he walked down the passage. 
몮Peeves is planning an amusing joke on the next 
person to pass the bust of Paracelsus halfway down 
the corridor.몯 

몮Does it involve Paracelsus falling on top of the 
person몭s head?몯 asked Harry. 

몮Funnily enough, it does,몯 said Nearly Headless Nick 
in a bored voice. 몮Subtlety has never been Peeves 몭s 
strong point. I몭m off to try and find the Bloody 
Baron... He might be able to put a stop to it... See 
you, Harry...몯 

| 358Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Yeah, 몭bye,몯 said Harry and instead of turning right, 
he turned left, taking a longer but safer route up to 
the Owlery. His spirits rose as he walked past window 
after window showing brilliantly blue sky; he had 
training later, he would be back on the Quidditch 
pitch at last 멪 

Something brushed his ankles. He looked down and 
saw the caretaker몭s skeletal gray cat, Mrs. Norris, 
slinking past him. She turned lamplike yellow eyes 
upon him for a moment before disappearing behind a 
statue of Wilfred the Wistful. 

몮I몭m not doing anything wrong,몯 Harry called after 
her. She had the unmistakable air of a cat that was 
off to report to her boss, yet Harry could not see why; 
he was perfectly entitled to walk up to the Owlery on 
a Saturday morning. 

The sun was high in the sky now and when Harry 
entered the Owlery the glassless windows dazzled his 
eyes; thick silvery beams of sunlight crisscrossed the 
circular room in which hundreds of owls nestled on 
rafters, a little restless in the early morning light, 
some clearly just returned from hunting. The straw- 
covered floor crunched a little as he stepped across 
tiny animal bones, craning his neck for a sight of 
Hedwig. 

몮There you are,몯 he said, spotting her somewhere near 
the very top of the vaulted ceiling. 몮Get down here, 

I몭ve got a letter for you.몯 

With a low hoot she stretched her great white wings 
and soared down onto his shoulder. 

몮Right, I know this says 몬Snuffles몭 on the outside,몯 he 
told her, giving her the letter to clasp in her beak and, 



| 359Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




without knowing exactly why, whispering, 몮but it몭s for 
Sirius, okay?몯 

She blinked her amber eyes once and he took that to 
mean that she understood. 

몮Safe flight, then,몯 said Harry and he carried her to 
one of the windows; with a moment몭s pressure on his 
arm Hedwig took off into the blindingly bright sky. He 
watched her until she became a tiny black speck and 
vanished, then switched his gaze to Hagrid몭s hut, 
clearly visible from this window, and just as clearly 
uninhabited, the chimney smokeless, the curtains 
drawn. 

The treetops of the Forbidden Forest swayed in a light 
breeze. Harry watched them, savoring the fresh air on 
his face, thinking about Quidditch later ... and then 
he saw it. A great, reptilian winged horse, just like the 
ones pulling the Hogwarts carriages, with leathery 
black wings spread wide like a pterodactyl몭s, rose up 
out of the trees like a grotesque, giant bird. It soared 
in a great circle and then plunged once more into the 
trees. The whole thing had happened so quickly Harry 
could hardly believe what he had seen, except that 
his heart was hammering madly. 

The Owlery door opened behind him. He leapt in 
shock, and turning quickly, saw Cho Chang holding a 
letter and a parcel in her hands. 

몮Hi,몯 said Harry automatically. 

몮Oh ... hi,몯 she said breathlessly. 몮I didn몭t think 
anyone would be up here this early. . . I only 
remembered five minutes ago, it몭s my mum몭s 
birthday.몯 



She held up the parcel. 

| 360Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Right,몯 said Harry. His brain seemed to have 
jammed. He wanted to say something funny and 
interesting, but the memory of that terrible winged 
horse was fresh in his mind. 

몮Nice day,몯 he said, gesturing to the windows. His 
insides seemed to shrivel with embarrassment. The 
weather. He was talking about the weather... 

몮Yeah,몯 said Cho, looking around for a suitable owl. 
몮Good Quidditch conditions. I haven몭t been out all 
week, have you?몯 

몮No,몯 said Harry. 

Cho had selected one of the school barn owls. She 
coaxed it down onto her arm where it held out an 
obliging leg so that she could attach the parcel. 

몮Hey, has Gryffindor got a new Keeper yet?몯 she 
asked. 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry. 몮It몭s my friend Ron Weasley, d몭you 
know him?몯 

몮The Tornado-hater?몯 said Cho rather coolly. 몮Is he 
any good?몯 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry, 몮I think so. I didn몭t see his tryout, 
though, I was in detention.몯 

Cho looked up, the parcel only half-attached to the 
owl몭s legs. 

몮That Umbridge woman몭s foul,몯 she said in a low 
voice. 몮Putting you in detention just because you told 
the truth about how 멪 how 멪 how he died. Everyone 
heard about it, it was all over the school. You were 
really brave standing up to her like that.몯 

| 361Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry몭s insides reinflated so rapidly he felt as though 
he might actually float a few inches off the dropping- 
strewn floor. Who cared about a stupid flying horse, 
Cho thought he had been really brave... For a 
moment he considered accidentally-on-purpose 
showing her his cut hand as he helped her tie her 
parcel onto her owl... But the very instant that this 
thrilling thought occurred, the Owlery door opened 
again. 

Filch, the caretaker, came wheezing into the room. 
There were purple patches on his sunken, veined 
cheeks, his jowls were aquiver and his thin gray hair 
disheveled; he had obviously run here. Mrs. Norris 
came trotting at his heels, gazing up at the owls 
overhead and mewing hungrily. There was a restless 
shifting of wings from above, and a large brown owl 
snapped his beak in a menacing fashion. 

몮Aha!몯 said Filch, taking a flat-footed step toward 
Harry, his pouchy cheeks trembling with anger. 몮I몭ve 
had a tip-off that you are intending to place a massive 
order for Dungbombs!몯 

Harry folded his arms and stared at the caretaker. 

몮Who told you I was ordering Dungbombs?몯 

Cho was looking from Harry to Filch, also frowning; 
the barn owl on her arm, tired of standing on one leg, 
gave an admonitory hoot but she ignored it. 

몮I have my sources,몯 said Filch in a self-satisfied hiss. 
몮Now hand over whatever it is you몭re sending.몯 

Feeling immensely thankful that he had not dawdled 
in posting off the letter, Harry said, 몮I can몭t, it몭s gone.몯 

몮Gone?몯 said Filch, his face contorting with rage. 

| 362Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Gone,몯 said Harry calmly. 



Filch opened his mouth furiously, mouthed for a few 
seconds, then raked Harry몭s robes with his eyes. 몮How 
do I know you haven몭t got it in your pocket?몯 

몮Because 멪 몯 

몮I saw him send it,몯 said Cho angrily. 

Filch rounded on her. 

몮You saw him 멪 ?몯 

몮That몭s right, I saw him,몯 she said fiercely. 

There was a moment몭s pause in which Filch glared at 
Cho and Cho glared right back, then the caretaker 
turned and shuffled back toward the door. He 
stopped with his hand on the handle and looked back 
at Harry. 

몮If I get so much as a whiff of a Dungbomb ...몯 

He stumped off down the stairs. Mrs. Norris cast a 
last longing look at the owls and followed him. 

Harry and Cho looked at each other. 

몮Thanks,몯 Harry said. 

몮No problem,몯 said Cho, finally fixing the parcel to the 
barn owl몭s other leg, her face slightly pink. 몮You 
weren몭t ordering Dungbombs, were you?몯 

몮No,몯 said Harry. 

몮I wonder why he thought you were, then?몯 she said, 
as she carried the owl to the window. 

| 363Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry shrugged; he was quite as mystified by that as 
she was, though, oddly, it was not bothering him very 
much at the moment. 

They left the Owlery together. At the entrance of a 
corridor that led toward the west wing of the castle, 
Cho said, 몮I몭m going this way. Well, I몭ll ... I몭ll see you 
around, Harry.몯 

몮Yeah ... see you.몯 

She smiled at him and departed. He walked on, 
feeling quietly elated. He had managed to have an 
entire conversation with her and not embarrassed 
himself once... You were really brave standing up to 
her like that... She had called him brave... She did not 
hate him for being alive... 

Of course, she had preferred Cedric, he knew that... 
Though if he몭d only asked her to the ball before Cedric 
had, things might have turned out differently... She 
had seemed sincerely sorry that she had to refuse 
when Harry had asked her. . . 

몮Morning,몯 Harry said brightly to Ron and Hermione, 
joining them at the Gryffindor table in the Great Hall. 

몮What are you looking so pleased about?몯 said Ron, 
eyeing Harry in surprise. 

몮Erm ... Quidditch later,몯 said Harry happily, pulling 
a large platter of bacon and eggs toward him. 

몮Oh ... yeah ...몯 said Ron. He put down the bit of toast 
he was eating and took a large swig of pumpkin juice. 
Then he said, 몮Listen ... you don몭t fancy going out a 
bit earlier with me, do you? Just to 멪 er 멪 give me 
some practice before training? So I can, you know, get 
my eye in a bit ...몯 

| 364Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Yeah, okay,몯 said Harry. 



몮Look, I don몭t think you should,몯 said Hermione 
seriously, 몮you몭re both really behind on homework as 



it 멪 몯 



But she broke off; the morning post was arriving and, 
as usual, the Daily Prophet was soaring toward her in 
the beak of a screech owl, which landed perilously 
close to the sugar bowl and held out a leg; Hermione 
pushed a Knut into its leather pouch, took the 
newspaper, and scanned the front page critically as 
the owl took off again. 

몮Anything interesting?몯 said Ron; Harry smiled 멪 he 
knew Ron was keen to get her off the subject of 
homework. 

몮No,몯 she sighed, 몮just some guff about the bass 
player in the Weird Sisters getting married...몯 

She opened the paper and disappeared behind it. 
Harry devoted himself to another helping of eggs and 
bacon; Ron was staring up at the high windows, 
looking slightly preoccupied. 

몮Wait a moment,몯 said Hermione suddenly. 몮Oh no ... 
Sirius!몯 

몮What몭s happened?몯 said Harry, and he snatched at 
the paper so violently that it ripped down the middle 
so that he and Hermione were holding half each. 

몮 몬The Ministry of Magic has received a tip-off from a 
reliable source that Sirius Black, notorious mass 
murderer . . . blah blah blah ...is currently hiding in 
London\ 몭 몯 Hermione read from her half in an 
anguished whisper. 



| 365Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Lucius Malfoy, I몭ll bet anything,몯 said Harry in a low, 
furious voice. 몮He did recognize Sirius on the 
platform...몯 

몮What?몯 said Ron, looking alarmed. 몮You didn몭t say 멪 



몮Shh!몯 said the other two. 

"... 몬Ministry warns Wizarding community that Black is 
very dangerous . . . killed thirteen people . . . broke out of 
Azkaban ...몭 the usual rubbish,몯 Hermione concluded, 
laying down her half of the paper and looking fearfully 
at Harry and Ron. 몮Well, he just won몭t be able to leave 
the house again, that몭s all,몯 she whispered. 
몮Dumbledore did warn him not to.몯 

Harry looked down glumly at the bit of the Prophet he 
had torn off. Most of the page was devoted to an 
advertisement for Madame Malkin몭s Robes for All 
Occasions, which was apparently having a sale. 

몮Hey!몯 he said, flattening it down so Hermione and 
Ron could both see it. 몮Look at this!몯 

몮I몭ve got all the robes I want,몯 said Ron. 

몮No,몯 said Harry, 몮look ... this little piece here ...몯 

Ron and Hermione bent closer to read it; the item was 
barely an inch long and placed right at the bottom of 
a column. It was headlined: 

TRESPASS AT MINISTRY 

Sturgis Podmore, 38, of number two, Laburnum 
Gardens, Clapham, has appeared in front of the 
Wizengamot charged with trespass and attempted 
robbery at the Ministry of Magic on 31st August. 

| 366Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Podmore was arrested by Ministry of Magic watch- 
wizard Eric Munch, who found him attempting to 
force his way through a top-security door at one 
o몭clock in the morning. Podmore, who refused to 
speak in his own defense, was convicted on both 
charges and sentenced to six months in Azkaban. 

몮Sturgis Podmore?몯 said Ron slowly, 몮but he몭s that 
bloke who looks like his head몭s been thatched, isn몭t 
he? He몭s one of the Ord 멪 몯 

몮Ron, shh\몯 said Hermione, casting a terrified look 
around them. 

몮Six months in Azkaban!몯 whispered Harry, shocked. 
몮Just for trying to get through a door!몯 

몮Don몭t be silly, it wasn몭t just for trying to get through 
a door 멪 what on earth was he doing at the Ministry 
of Magic at one o몭clock in the morning?몯 breathed 
Hermione. 

몮D몭you reckon he was doing something for the Order?몯 
Ron muttered. 

몮Wait a moment...몯 said Harry slowly. 몮Sturgis was 
supposed to come and see us off, remember?몯 

The other two looked at him. 

몮Yeah, he was supposed to be part of our guard going 
to King몭s Cross, remember? And Moody was all 
annoyed because he didn몭t turn up, so that doesn몭t 
seem like he was supposed to be on a iob for them, 
does it?몯 

몮Well, maybe they didn몭t expect him to get caught,몯 
said Hermione. 



| 367Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮It could be a frame-up!몯 Ron exclaimed excitedly. 몮No 
멪 listen!몯 he went on, dropping his voice dramatically 
at the threatening look on Hermione몭s face. 몮The 
Ministry suspects he몭s one of Dumbledore몭s lot so 멪 I 
dunno 멪 they lured him to the Ministry, and he 
wasn몭t trying to get through a door at all! Maybe 
they몭ve just made something up to get him!몯 

There was a pause while Harry and Hermione 
considered this. Harry thought it seemed far-fetched; 
Hermione, on the other hand, looked rather 
impressed and said, 몮Do you know, I wouldn몭t be at 
all surprised if that were true.몯 

She folded up her half of the newspaper thoughtfully. 
When Harry laid down his knife and fork she seemed 
to come out of a reverie. 

몮Right, well, I think we should tackle that essay for 
Sprout on Self-Fertilizing Shrubs first, and if we몭re 
lucky we몭ll be able to start McGonagall몭s Inanimatus 
Conjurus before lunch...몯 

Harry felt a small twinge of guilt at the thought of the 
pile of homework awaiting him upstairs, but the sky 
was a clear, exhilarating blue, and he had not been 
on his Firebolt for a week... 

몮I mean, we can do it tonight,몯 said Ron, as he and 
Harry walked down the sloping lawns toward the 
Quidditch pitch, their broomsticks over their 
shoulders, Hermione몭s dire warnings that they would 
fail all their O.W.L.s still ringing in their ears. 몮And 
we몭ve got tomorrow. She gets too worked up about 
work, that몭s her trouble...몯 There was a pause and he 
added, in a slightly more anxious tone, 몮D몭you think 
she meant it when she said we weren몭t copying from 
her?몯 



| 368Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Yeah, I do,몯 said Harry. 몮Still, this is important too, 
we몭ve got to practice if we want to stay on the 
Quidditch team...몯 

몮Yeah, that몭s right,몯 said Ron in a heartened tone. 

몮And we have got plenty of time to do it all...몯 

Harry glanced over to his right as they approached 
the Quidditch pitch, to where the trees of the 
Forbidden Forest were swaying darkly. Nothing flew 
out of them; the sky was empty but for a few distant 
owls fluttering around the Owlery Tower. He had 
enough to worry about; the flying horse wasn몭t doing 
him any harm: He pushed it out of his mind. 

They collected balls from the cupboard in the 
changing room and set to work, Ron guarding the 
three tall goalposts, Harry playing Chaser and trying 
to get the Quaffle past Ron. Harry thought Ron was 
pretty good; he blocked three-quarters of the goals 
Harry attempted to put past him and played better 
the longer they practiced. After a couple of hours they 
returned to the school, where they ate lunch, during 
which Hermione made it quite clear that she thought 
they were irresponsible, then returned to the 
Quidditch pitch for the real training session. All their 
teammates but Angelina were already in the changing 
room when they entered. 

몮All right, Ron?몯 said George, winking at him. 

몮Yeah,몯 said Ron, who had become quieter and 
quieter all the way down to the pitch. 

몮Ready to show us all up, Ickle Prefect?몯 said Fred, 
emerging tousle-haired from the neck of his Quidditch 
robes, a slightly malicious grin on his face. 



| 369Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Shut up,몯 said Ron, stony-faced, pulling on his own 
team robes for the first time. They fitted him well 
considering they had been Oliver Wood몭s, who was 
rather broader in the shoulder. 

몮Okay everyone,몯 said Angelina, entering from the 
Captain몭s office, already changed. 몮Let몭s get to it; 

Alicia and Fred, if you can just bring the ball crate 
out for us. Oh, and there are a couple of people out 
there watching but I want you to just ignore them, all 
right?몯 

Something in her would-be casual voice made Harry 
think he might know who the uninvited spectators 
were, and sure enough, when they left the changing 
room for the bright sunlight of the pitch it was to a 
storm of catcalls and jeers from the Slytherin 
Quidditch team and assorted hangers-on, who were 
grouped halfway up the empty stands and whose 
voices echoed loudly around the stadium. 

몮What몭s that Weasley몭s riding?몯 Malfoy called in his 
sneering drawl. 몮Why would anyone put a Flying 
Charm on a moldy old log like that?몯 

Crabbe, Goyle, and Pansy Parkinson guffawed and 
shrieked with laughter. Ron mounted his broom and 
kicked off from the ground and Harry followed him, 
watching his ears turn red from behind. 

몮Ignore them,몯 he said, accelerating to catch up with 
Ron. 몮We몭ll see who몭s laughing after we play them...몯 

몮Exactly the attitude I want, Harry,몯 said Angelina 
approvingly, soaring around them with the Quaffle 
under her arm and slowing to hover on the spot in 
front of her airborne team. 몮Okay everyone, we몭re 
going to start with some passes just to warm up, the 
whole team please 멪 몯 

| 370Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Hey, Johnson, what몭s with that hairstyle anyway?몯 
shrieked Pansy Parkinson from below. 몮Why would 
anyone want to look like they몭ve got worms coming 
out of their head?몯 

Angelina swept her long braided hair out of her face 
and said calmly, 몮Spread out, then, and let몭s see what 
we can do...몯 

Harry reversed away from the others to the far side of 
the pitch. Ron fell back toward the opposite goal. 
Angelina raised the Quaffle with one hand and threw 
it hard to Fred, who passed to George, who passed to 
Harry, who passed to Ron, who dropped it. 

The Slytherins, led by Malfoy, roared and screamed 
with laughter. Ron, who had pelted toward the 
ground to catch the Quaffle before it landed, pulled 
out of the dive untidily, so that he slipped sideways 
on his broom, and returned to playing height, 
blushing. Harry saw Fred and George exchange looks, 
but uncharacteristically neither of them said 
anything, for which he was grateful. 

몮Pass it on, Ron,몯 called Angelina, as though nothing 
had happened. 

Ron threw the Quaffle to Alicia, who passed back to 
Harry, who passed to George... 

몮Hey, Potter, how몭s your scar feeling?몯 called Malfoy. 
몮Sure you don몭t need a lie-down? It must be, what, a 
whole week since you were in the hospital wing, that몭s 
a record for you, isn몭t it?몯 

Fred passed to Angelina; she reverse passed to Harry, 
who had not been expecting it, but caught it in the 
very tips of his fingers and passed it quickly to Ron, 
who lunged for it and missed by inches. 

| 371Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Come on now, Ron,몯 said Angelina crossly, as Ron 
dived for the ground again, chasing the Quaffle. 몮Pay 
attention.몯 

It would have been hard to say whether Ron몭s face or 
the Quaffle was a deeper scarlet when he returned 
again to playing height. Malfoy and the rest of the 
Slytherin team were howling with laughter. 

On his third attempt, Ron caught the Quaffle; 
perhaps out of relief he passed it on so 
enthusiastically that it soared straight through Katie몭s 
outstretched hands and hit her hard in the face. 

몮Sorry!몯 Ron groaned, zooming forward to see whether 
he had done any damage. 

몮Get back in position, she몭s fine!몯 barked Angelina. 
몮But as you몭re passing to a teammate, do try not to 
knock her off her broom, won몭t you? We몭ve got 
Bludgers for that!몯 

Katie몭s nose was bleeding. Down below the Slytherins 
were stamping their feet and jeering. Fred and George 
converged on Katie. 

몮Here, take this,몯 Fred told her, handing her 
something small and purple from out of his pocket. 
몮It몭ll clear it up in no time.몯 

몮All right,몯 called Angelina, 몮Fred, George, go and get 
your bats and a Bludger; Ron, get up to the goalposts, 
Harry, release the Snitch when I say so. We몭re going 
to aim for Ron몭s goal, obviously.몯 

Harry zoomed off after the twins to fetch the Snitch. 

몮Ron몭s making a right pig몭s ear of things, isn몭t he?몯 
muttered George, as the three of them landed at the 

| 372Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




crate containing the balls and opened it to extract one 
of the Bludgers and the Snitch. 

몮He몭s just nervous,몯 said Harry. 몮He was fine when I 
was practicing with him this morning.몯 

몮Yeah, well, I hope he hasn몭t peaked too soon,몯 said 
Fred gloomily. 

They returned to the air. When Angelina blew her 
whistle, Harry released the Snitch and Fred and 
George let fly the Bludger; from that moment on, 

Harry was barely aware of what the others were 
doing. It was his job to recapture the tiny fluttering 
golden ball that was worth a hundred and fifty points 
to the Seeker몭s team and doing so required enormous 
speed and skill. He accelerated, rolling and swerving 
in and out of the Chasers, the warm autumn air 
whipping his face and the distant yells of the 
Slytherins so much meaningless roaring in his ears... 
But too soon, the whistle brought him to a halt again. 

몮Stop 멪 stop - STOP!몯 screamed Angelina. 몮Ron 멪 
you몭re not covering your middle post!몯 

Harry looked around at Ron, who was hovering in 
front of the left-hand hoop, leaving the other two 
completely unprotected. 

몮Oh ... sorry ...몯 

몮You keep shifting around while you몭re watching the 
Chasers!몯 said Angelina. 몮Either stay in center 
position until you have to move to defend a hoop, or 
else circle the hoops, but don몭t drift vaguely off to one 
side, that몭s how you let in the last three goals!몯 

몮Sorry ...몯 Ron repeated, his red face shining like a 
beacon against the bright blue sky. 

| 373Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮And Katie, can몭t you do something about that 
nosebleed?몯 

몮It몭s just getting worse!몯 said Katie thickly, attempting 
to stem the flow with her sleeve. 

Harry glanced around at Fred, who was looking 
anxious and checking his pockets. He saw Fred pull 
out something purple, examine it for a second, and 
then look around at Katie, evidently horrorstruck. 

몮Well, let몭s try again,몯 said Angelina. She was ignoring 
the Slytherins, who had now set up a chant of 
몮 Gryffindor are losers, Gryffindor are losers,몯 but there 
was a certain rigidity about her seat on the broom 
nevertheless. 

This time they had been flying for barely three 
minutes when Angelina몭s whistle sounded. Harry, 
who had just sighted the Snitch circling the opposite 
goalpost, pulled up feeling distinctly aggrieved. 

몮What now?몯 he said impatiently to Alicia, who was 
nearest. 

몮Katie,몯 she said shortly. 

Harry turned and saw Angelina, Fred, and George all 
flying as fast as they could toward Katie. Harry and 
Alicia sped toward her too. It was plain that Angelina 
had stopped training just in time; Katie was now 
chalk- white and covered in blood. 

몮She needs the hospital wing,몯 said Angelina. 

몮We몭ll take her,몯 said Fred. 몮She 멪 er 멪 might have 
swallowed a Blood Blisterpod by mistake 멪 몯 



| 374Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Well, there몭s no point continuing with no Beaters and 
a Chaser gone,몯 said Angelina glumly, as Fred and 
George zoomed off toward the castle supporting Katie 
between them. 몮Come on, let몭s go and get changed.몯 

The Slytherins continued to chant as they trailed 
back into the changing rooms. 

몮How was practice?몯 asked Hermione rather coolly 
half an hour later, as Harry and Ron climbed through 
the portrait hole into the Gryffindor common room. 

몮It was 멪 몯 Harry began. 

몮Completely lousy,몯 said Ron in a hollow voice, 
sinking into a chair beside Hermione. She looked up 
at Ron and her frostiness seemed to melt. 

몮Well, it was only your first one,몯 she said consolingly, 
몮it몭s bound to take time to 멪 몯 

몮Who said it was me who made it lousy?몯 snapped 
Ron. 

몮No one,몯 said Hermione, looking taken aback, 몮I 
thought 멪 몯 

몮You thought I was bound to be rubbish?몯 

몮No, of course I didn몭t! Look, you said it was lousy so I 
just 멪 몯 

몮I몭m going to get started on some homework,몯 said 
Ron angrily and stomped off to the staircase to the 
boys몭 dormitories and vanished from sight. Hermione 
turned to Harry. 

몮 Was he lousy?몯 



| 375Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮No,몯 said Harry loyally. 

Hermione raised her eyebrows. 

몮Well, I suppose he could몭ve played better,몯 Harry 
muttered, 몮but it was only the first training session, 
like you said...몯 

Neither Harry nor Ron seemed to make much 
headway with their homework that night. Harry knew 
Ron was too preoccupied with how badly he had 
performed at Quidditch practice and he himself was 
having difficulty in getting the chant of 몮Gryffindor are 
losers몯 out of his head. 

They spent the whole of Sunday in the common room, 
buried in their books while the room around them 
filled up, then emptied: It was another clear, fine day 
and most of their fellow Gryffindors spent the day out 
in the grounds, enjoying what might well be some of 
the last sunshine that year. By the evening Harry felt 
as though somebody had been beating his brain 
against the inside of his skull. 

몮You know, we probably should try and get more 
homework done during the week,몯 Harry muttered to 
Ron, as they finally laid aside Professor McGonagall몭s 
long essay on the Inanimatus Conjurus spell and 
turned miserably to Professor Sinistra 몭s equally long 
and difficult essay about Jupiter몭s moons. 

몮Yeah,몯 said Ron, rubbing slightly bloodshot eyes and 
throwing his fifth spoiled bit of parchment into the 
fire beside them. 몮Listen ... shall we just ask 
Hermione if we can have a look at what she몭s done?몯 

Harry glanced over at her; she was sitting with 
Crookshanks on her lap and chatting merrily to 
Ginny as a pair of knitting needles flashed in midair 

| 376Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




in front of her, now knitting a pair of shapeless elf 
socks. 



몮No,몯 he said heavily, 몮you know she won몭t let us.몯 

And so they worked on while the sky outside the 
windows became steadily darker; slowly, the crowd in 
the common room began to thin again. At half-past 
eleven, Hermione wandered over to them, yawning. 

몮Nearly done?몯 

몮No,몯 said Ron shortly. 

몮Jupiter몭s biggest moon is Ganymede, not Callisto,몯 
she said, pointing over Ron몭s shoulder at a line in his 
Astronomy essay, 몮and it몭s Io that몭s got the volcanos.몯 

몮Thanks,몯 snarled Ron, scratching out the offending 
sentences. 

몮Sorry, I only 멪 몯 

몮Yeah, well, if you몭ve just come over here to criticize 멪 



몮Ron 멪 몯 

몮I haven몭t got time to listen to a sermon, all right, 
Hermione, I몭m up to my neck in it here 멪 몯 

몮No 멪 look!몯 

Hermione was pointing to the nearest window. Harry 
and Ron both looked over. A handsome screech owl 
was standing on the windowsill, gazing into the room 
at Ron. 



| 377Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Isn몭t that Hermes?몯 said Hermione, sounding 
amazed. 

몮Blimey, it is!몯 said Ron quietly, throwing down his 
quill and getting to his feet. 몮What몭s Percy writing to 
me for?몯 

He crossed to the window and opened it; Hermes flew 
inside, landed upon Ron몭s essay, and held out a leg to 
which a letter was attached. Ron took it off and the 
owl departed at once, leaving inky footprints across 
Ron몭s drawing of the moon Io. 

몮That몭s definitely Percy몭s handwriting,몯 said Ron, 
sinking back into his chair and staring at the words 
on the outside of the scroll: To Ronald Weasley, 
Gryffindor House, Hogwarts. He looked up at the 
other two. 몮What d몭you reckon?몯 

몮Open it!몯 said Hermione eagerly. Harry nodded. 

Ron unrolled the scroll and began to read. The farther 
down the parchment his eyes traveled, the more 
pronounced became his scowl. When he had finished 
reading, he looked disgusted. He thrust the letter at 
Harry and Hermione, who leaned toward each other 
to read it together: 

Dear Ron, 

I have only just heard (from no less a person than the 
Minister of Magic himself, who has it from your new 
teacher, Professor Umbridge) that you have become a 
Hogwarts prefect 

I was most pleasantly surprised when I heard this 
news and must firstly offer my congratulations. I must 
admit that I have always been afraid that you would 
take what we might call the 몮Fred and George 몯 route, 

| 378Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




rather than following in my footsteps, so you can 
imagine my feelings on hearing you have stopped 
flouting authority and have decided to shoulder some 
real responsibility. 

But I want to give you more than congratulations, Ron, 

I want to give you some advice, which is why I am 
sending this at night rather than by the usual morning 
post Hopefully you will be able to read this away from 
prying eyes and avoid awkward questions. 

From something the Minister let slip when telling me 
you are now a prefect, I gather that you are still seeing 
a lot of Harry Potter. I must tell you, Ron, that nothing 
could put you in danger of losing your badge more than 
continued fraternization with that boy. Yes, I am sure 
you are surprised to hear this 멪 no doubt you will say 
that Potter has always been Dumbledore몭s favorite 멪 
but I feel bound to tell you that Dumbledore may not be 
in charge at Hogwarts much longer and the people who 
count have a very different 멪 and probably more 
accurate 멪 view of Potters behavior. I shall say no 
more here, but if you look at the Daily Prophet 
tomorrow you will get a good idea of the way the wind 
is blowing 멪 and see if you can spot yours truly! 

Seriously, Ron, you do not want to be tarred with the 
same brush as Potter, it could be very damaging to 
your future prospects, and I am talking here about life 
after school too. As you must be aware, given that our 
father escorted him to court, Potter had a disciplinary 
hearing this summer in front of the whole Wizengamot 
and he did not come out of it looking too good. He got 
off on a mere technicality if you ask me and many of 
the people I몭ve spoken to remain convinced of his guilt. 

It may be that you are afraid to sever ties with Potter 
멪 I know that he can be unbalanced and, for all I 
know, violent 멪 but if you have any worries about this, 

| 379Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




or have spotted anything else in Potter몭s behavior that 
is troubling you, I urge you to speak to Dolores 
Umbridge, a really delightful woman, who I know will 
be only too happy to advise you. 

This leads me to my other bit of advice. As I have 
hinted above, Dumbledore몭s regime at Hog warts may 
soon be over. Your loyalty, Ron, should be not to him, 
but to the school and the Ministry. I am very sorry to 
hear that so far Professor Umbridge is encountering 
very little cooperation from staff as she strives to make 
those necessary changes within Hogwarts that the 
Ministry so ardently desires (although she should find 
this easier from next week 멪 again, see the Prophet 
tomorrow!). I shall say only this 멪 a student who 
shows himself willing to help Professor Umbridge now 
may be very well placed for Head Boy ship in a couple 
of years! 

I am sorry that I was unable to see more of you over 
the summer. It pains me to criticize our parents, but I 
am afraid I can no longer live under their roof while 
they remain mixed up with the dangerous crowd 
around Dumbledore (if you are writing to Mother at any 
point, you might tell her that a certain Sturgis Podmore, 
who is a great friend of Dumbledore몭s, has recently 
been sent to Azkaban for trespass at the Ministry. 
Perhaps that will open their eyes to the kind of petty 
criminals with whom they are currently rubbing 
shoulders). I count myself very lucky to have escaped 
the stigma of association with such people 멪 the 
Minister really could not be more gracious to me 멪 and 
I do hope, Ron, that you will not allow family ties to 
blind you to the misguided nature of our parents몭 
beliefs and actions either. I sincerely hope that, in time, 
they will realize how mistaken they were and I shall, 
of course, be ready to accept a full apology when that 
day comes. 



| 380Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Please think over what I have said most carefully, 
particularly the bit about Harry Potter, and 
congratulations again on becoming prefect. 

Your brother, 

Percy 

Harry looked up at Ron. 

몮Well,몯 he said, trying to sound as though he found 
the whole thing a joke, 몮if you want to 멪 er 멪 what is 
it?몯 (He checked Percy몭s letter.) 몮Oh yeah 멪 몬sever ties몭 
with me, I swear I won몭t get violent.몯 

몮Give it back,몯 said Ron, holding out his hand. 몮He is 
멪 몯 Ron said jerkily, tearing Percy몭s letter in half, 몮the 
world몭s몯 멪 he tore it into quarters 멪 몮biggest몯 멪 he 
tore it into eighths 멪 몮git.몯 He threw the pieces into 
the fire. 

몮Come on, we몭ve got to get this finished some time 
before dawn,몯 he said briskly to Harry, pulling 
Professor Sinistra 몭s essay back toward him. 

Hermione was looking at Ron with an odd expression 
on her face. 

몮Oh, give them here,몯 she said abruptly. 

몮What?몯 said Ron. 

몮Give them to me, I몭ll look through them and correct 
them,몯 she said. 

몮Are you serious? Ah, Hermione, you몭re a lifesaver,몯 
said Ron, 몮what can I 멪 ?몯 



| 381Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮What you can say is, 몬We promise well never leave 
our homework this late again,몭 몯 she said, holding out 
both hands for their essays, but she looked slightly 
amused all the same. 

몮Thanks a million, Hermione,몯 said Harry weakly, 
passing over his essay and sinking back into his 
armchair, rubbing his eyes. 

It was now past midnight and the common room was 
deserted but for the three of them and Crookshanks. 
The only sound was that of Hermione몭s quill 
scratching out sentences here and there on their 
essays and the ruffle of pages as she checked various 
facts in the reference books strewn across the table. 
Harry was exhausted. He also felt an odd, sick, empty 
feeling in his stomach that had nothing to do with 
tiredness and everything to do with the letter now 
curling blackly in the heart of the fire. 

He knew that half the people inside Hogwarts thought 
him strange, even mad; he knew that the Daily 
Prophet had been making snide allusions to him for 
months, but there was something about seeing it 
written down like that in Percy몭s writing, about 
knowing that Percy was advising Ron to drop him and 
even to tell tales on him to Umbridge, that made his 
situation real to him as nothing else had. He had 
known Percy for four years, had stayed in his house 
during the summers, shared a tent with him during 
the Quidditch World Cup, had even been awarded full 
marks by him in the second task of the Triwizard 
Tournament last year, yet now, Percy thought him 
unbalanced and possibly violent. 

And with a surge of sympathy for his godfather, Harry 
thought that Sirius was probably the only person he 
knew who could really understand how he felt at the 
moment, because Sirius was in the same situation; 

| 382Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




nearly everyone in the Wizarding world thought Sirius 
a dangerous murderer and a great Voldemort 
supporter and he had had to live with that knowledge 
for fourteen years... 

Harry blinked. He had just seen something in the fire 
that could not have been there. It had flashed into 
sight and vanished immediately. No ... it could not 
have been... He had imagined it because he had been 
thinking about Sirius... 

몮Okay, write that down,몯 Hermione said to Ron, 
pushing his essay and a sheet covered in her own 
writing back to Ron, 몮and then copy out this 
conclusion that I몭ve written for you.몯 

몮Hermione, you are honestly the most wonderful 
person I몭ve ever met,몯 said Ron weakly, 몮and if I몭m 
ever rude to you again 멪 몯 

몮 멪 I몭ll know you몭re back to normal,몯 said Hermione. 
몮Harry, yours is okay except for this bit at the end, I 
think you must have misheard Professor Sinistra, 
Europa몭s covered in ice, not mice 멪 Harry?몯 

Harry had slid off his chair onto his knees and was 
now crouching on the singed and threadbare 
hearthrug, gazing into the flames. 

몮Er 멪 Harry?몯 said Ron uncertainly. 몮Why are you 
down there?몯 

몮Because I몭ve just seen Sirius몭s head in the fire,몯 said 
Harry. 

He spoke quite calmly; after all, he had seen Sirius몭s 
head in this very fire the previous year and talked to 
it too. Nevertheless, he could not be sure that he had 
really seen it this time... It had vanished so quickly... 

| 383Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Sirius몭s head?몯 Hermione repeated. 몮You mean like 
when he wanted to talk to you during the Triwizard 
Tournament? But he wouldn몭t do that now, it would 
be too 멪 Siriusl몯 

She gasped, gazing at the fire; Ron dropped his quill. 
There in the middle of the dancing flames sat Sirius몭s 
head, long dark hair falling around his grinning face. 

몮I was starting to think you몭d go to bed before 
everyone else had disappeared,몯 he said. 몮I몭ve been 
checking every hour.몯 

몮You몭ve been popping into the fire every hour?몯 Harry 
said, half laughing. 

몮Just for a few seconds to check if the coast was clear 
yet.몯 

몮But what if you몭d been seen?몯 said Hermione 
anxiously. 

몮Well, I think a girl 멪 first year by the look of her 멪 
might몭ve got a glimpse of me earlier, but don몭t worry,몯 
Sirius said hastily, as Hermione clapped a hand to 
her mouth. 몮I was gone the moment she looked back 
at me and I몭ll bet she just thought I was an oddly 
shaped log or something.몯 

몮But Sirius, this is taking an awful risk 멪 몯 Hermione 
began. 

몮You sound like Molly,몯 said Sirius. 몮This was the only 
way I could come up with of answering Harry몭s letter 
without resorting to a code 멪 and codes are 
breakable.몯 

At the mention of Harry몭s letter, Hermione and Ron 
had both turned to stare at him. 

| 384Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮You didn몭t say you몭d written to Sirius!몯 said 
Hermione accusingly. 



몮I forgot,몯 said Harry, which was perfectly true; his 
meeting with Cho in the Owlery had driven everything 
before it out of his mind. 몮Don몭t look at me like that, 
Hermione, there was no way anyone would have got 
secret information out of it, was there, Sirius?몯 

몮No, it was very good,몯 said Sirius, smiling. 몮Anyway, 
we몭d better be quick, just in case we몭re disturbed 멪 
your scar.몯 

몮What about 멪 ?몯 Ron began, but Hermione said 
quickly, 몮We몭ll tell you afterward, go on, Sirius.몯 

몮Well, I know it can몭t be fun when it hurts, but we 
don몭t think it몭s anything to really worry about. It kept 
aching all last year, didn몭t it?몯 

몮Yeah, and Dumbledore said it happened whenever 
Voldemort was feeling a powerful emotion,몯 said 
Harry, ignoring, as usual, Ron and Hermione 몭s 
winces. 몮So maybe he was just, I dunno, really angry 
or something the night I had that detention.몯 

몮Well, now he몭s back it몭s bound to hurt more often,몯 
said Sirius. 

몮So you don몭t think it had anything to do with 
Umbridge touching me when I was in detention with 
her?몯 Harry asked. 

몮I doubt it,몯 said Sirius. 몮I know her by reputation and 
I몭m sure she몭s no Death Eater 멪 몯 

몮She몭s foul enough to be one,몯 said Harry darkly and 
Ron and Hermione nodded vigorously in agreement. 

| 385Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Yes, but the world isn몭t split into good people and 
Death Eaters,몯 said Sirius with a wry smile. 몮I know 
she몭s a nasty piece of work, though 멪 you should 
hear Remus talk about her.몯 

몮Does Lupin know her?몯 asked Harry quickly, 
remembering Umbridge몭s comments about dangerous 
half-breeds during her first lesson. 

몮No,몯 said Sirius, 몮but she drafted a bit of anti- 
werewolf legislation two years ago that makes it 
almost impossible for him to get a job.몯 

Harry remembered how much shabbier Lupin looked 
these days and his dislike of Umbridge deepened even 
further. 

몮What몭s she got against werewolves?몯 said Hermione 
angrily. 

몮Scared of them, I expect,몯 said Sirius, smiling at her 
indignation. 몮Apparently she loathes part-humans; 
she campaigned to have mer-people rounded up and 
tagged last year too. Imagine wasting your time and 
energy persecuting merpeople when there are little 
toerags like Kreacher on the loose 멪 몯 

Ron laughed but Hermione looked upset. 

몮Sirius!몯 she said reproachfully. 몮Honestly, if you 
made a bit of an effort with Kreacher I몭m sure he몭d 
respond, after all, you are the only member of his 
family he몭s got left, and Professor Dumbledore said 멪 몯 

몮So what are Umbridge몭s lessons like?몯 Sirius 
interrupted. 몮Is she training you all to kill half- 
breeds?몯 



| 386Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮No,몯 said Harry, ignoring Hermione몭s affronted look 
at being cut off in her defense of Kreacher. 몮She몭s not 
letting us use magic at all!몯 

몮All we do is read the stupid textbook,몯 said Ron. 

몮Ah, well, that figures,몯 said Sirius. 몮Our information 
from inside the Ministry is that Fudge doesn몭t want 
you trained in combat.몯 

몮 Trained in combat?몯 repeated Harry incredulously. 
몮What does he think we몭re doing here, forming some 
sort of wizard army?몯 

몮That몭s exactly what he thinks you몭re doing,몯 said 
Sirius, 몮or rather, that몭s exactly what he몭s afraid 
Dumbledore몭s doing 멪 forming his own private army, 
with which he will be able to take on the Ministry of 
Magic.몯 

There was a pause at this, then Ron said, 몮That몭s the 
stupidest thing I몭ve ever heard, including all the stuff 
that Luna Lovegood comes out with.몯 

몮So we몭re being prevented from learning Defense 
Against the Dark Arts because Fudge is scared we몭ll 
use spells against the Ministry?몯 said Hermione, 
looking furious. 

몮Yep,몯 said Sirius. 몮Fudge thinks Dumbledore will 
stop at nothing to seize power. He몭s getting more 
paranoid about Dumbledore by the day. It몭s a matter 
of time before he has Dumbledore arrested on some 
trumped-up charge.몯 

This reminded Harry of Percy몭s letter. 



| 387Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮D몭you know if there몭s going to be anything about 
Dumbledore in the Daily Prophet tomorrow? Only 
Ron몭s brother Percy reckons there will be 멪 몯 

몮I don몭t know,몯 said Sirius, 몮I haven몭t seen anyone 
from the Order all weekend, they몭re all busy. It몭s just 
been Kreacher and me here...몯 

There was a definite note of bitterness in Sirius몭s 
voice. 

몮So you haven몭t had any news about Hagrid, either?몯 

몮Ah ...몯 said Sirius, 몮well, he was supposed to be back 
by now, no one몭s sure what몭s happened to him.몯 Then, 
seeing their stricken faces, he added quickly, 몮But 
Dumbledore몭s not worried, so don몭t you three get 
yourselves in a state; I몭m sure Hagrid몭s fine.몯 

몮But if he was supposed to be back by now ...몯 said 
Hermione in a small, worried voice. 

몮Madame Maxime was with him, we몭ve been in touch 
with her and she says they got separated on the 
journey home 멪 but there몭s nothing to suggest he몭s 
hurt or 멪 well, nothing to suggest he몭s not perfectly 
okay.몯 

Unconvinced, Harry, Ron, and Hermione exchanged 
worried looks. 

몮Listen, don몭t go asking too many questions about 
Hagrid,몯 said Sirius hastily, 몮it몭ll just draw even more 
attention to the fact that he몭s not back, and I know 
Dumbledore doesn몭t want that. Hagrid몭s tough, he몭ll 
be okay.몯 And when they did not appear cheered by 
this, Sirius added, 몮When몭s your next Hogsmeade 
weekend anyway? I was thinking, we got away with 



| 388Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




the dog disguise at the station, didn몭t we? I thought I 
could 멪 몯 



몮NO!몯 said Harry and Hermione together, very loudly. 

몮Sirius, didn몭t you see the Daily Prophet?몯 said 
Hermione anxiously. 

몮Oh that,몯 said Sirius, grinning, 몮they몭re always 
guessing where I am, they haven몭t really got a clue 멪 몯 

몮Yeah, but we think this time they have,몯 said Harry. 
몮Something Malfoy said on the train made us think he 
knew it was you, and his father was on the platform, 
Sirius 멪 you know, Lucius Malfoy 멪 so don몭t come 
up here, whatever you do, if Malfoy recognizes you 
again 멪 몯 

몮All right, all right, I몭ve got the point,몯 said Sirius. He 
looked most displeased. 몮Just an idea, thought you 
might like to get together 멪 몯 

몮I would, I just don몭t want you chucked back in 
Azkaban!몯 said Harry. 

There was a pause in which Sirius looked out of the 
fire at Harry, a crease between his sunken eyes. 

몮You몭re less like your father than I thought,몯 he said 
finally, a definite coolness in his voice. 몮The risk 
would몭ve been what made it fun for James.몯 

몮Look 멪 몯 

몮Well, I몭d better get going, I can hear Kreacher coming 
down the stairs,몯 said Sirius, but Harry was sure he 
was lying. 몮I몭ll write to tell you a time I can make it 
back into the fire, then, shall I? If you can stand to 
risk it?몯 

| 389Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




There was a tiny pop, and the place where Sirius몭s 
head had been was flickering flame once more. 



| 390Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






THE HOGWARTS HIGH INQUISITOR 

They had expected to have to comb Hermione몭s Daily 
Prophet carefully next morning to find the article 
Percy had mentioned in his letter. However, the 
departing delivery owl had barely cleared the top of 
the milk jug when Hermione let out a huge gasp and 
flattened the newspaper to reveal a large photograph 
of Dolores Umbridge, smiling widely and blinking 
slowly at them from beneath the headline: 

MINISTRY SEEKS EDUCATIONAL REFORM 

DOLORES UMBRIDGE APPOINTED FIRST-EVER 
몮HIGH INQUISITOR몯 

몮 몮High Inquisitor몭?몯 said Harry darkly, his half-eaten 
bit of toast slipping from his fingers. 몮What does that 
mean?몯 

Hermione read aloud: 

몮In a surprise move last night the Ministry of Magic 
passed new legislation giving itself an unprecedented 

| 391Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



level of control at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and 
Wizardry. 

몮 몬The Minister has been growing uneasy about goings- 
on at Hogwarts for some time,몭 said Junior Assistant to 
the Minister, Percy Weasley. 몬He is now responding to 
concerns voiced by anxious parents, who feel the 
school may be moving in a direction they do not 
approve.몭 

몮This is not the first time in recent weeks Fudge has 
used new laws to effect improvements at the 
Wizarding school. As recently as August 30th 
Educational Decree Twenty -two was passed, to ensure 
that, in the event of the current headmaster being 
unable to provide a candidate for a teaching post, the 
Ministry should select an appropriate person. 

몮 몬That몭s how Dolores Umbridge came to be appointed 
to the teaching staff at Hogwarts,몭 said Weasley last 
night. 몬Dumbledore couldn몭t find anyone, so the 
Minister put in Umbridge and of course, she몭s been an 
immediate success 멪 몭 몯 

몮She몭s been a WHAT?몯 said Harry loudly. 

몮Wait, there몭s more,몯 said Hermione grimly. 

몮 몬 멪 an immediate success, totally revolutionizing the 
teaching of Defense Against the Dark Arts and 
providing the Minister with on-the-ground feedback 
about what몭s really happening at Hogwarts.몭 

몮It is this last function that the Ministry has now 
formalized with the passing of Educational Decree 
Twenty-three, which creates the new position of 
몬Hogwarts High Inquisitor.몭 



| 392Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮 몬This is an exciting new phase in the Minister몭s plan 
to get to grips with what some are calling the 몮falling 
standards몯 at Hog warts,몭 said Weasley. 몬The Inquisitor 
will have powers to inspect her fellow educators and 
make sure that they are coming up to scratch. 

Professor Umbridge has been offered this position in 
addition to her own teaching post, and we are 
delighted to say that she has accepted.몭 

몮The Ministry몭s new moves have received enthusiastic 
support from parents of students at Hogwarts. 

몮 몬I feel much easier in my mind now that I know that 
Dumbledore is being subjected to fair and objective 
evaluation,몭 said Mr. Lucius Malfoy, 41, speaking from 
his Wiltshire mansion last night. 몬Many of us with our 
children몭s best interests at heart have been concerned 
about some of Dumbledore몭s eccentric decisions in the 
last few years and will be glad to know that the 
Ministry is keeping an eye on the situation.몭 

몮Among those 몬eccentric decisions몭 are undoubtedly the 
controversial staff appointments previously described 
in this newspaper, which have included the hiring of 
werewolf Remus Lupin, half giant Rubeus Hagrid, and 
delusional ex-Auror 몬Mad-Eye몭 Moody. 

몮Rumors abound, of course, that Albus Dumbledore, 
once Supreme Mugwump of the International 
Confederation of Wizards and Chief Warlock of the 
Wizengamot, is no longer up to the task of managing 
the prestigious school of Hogwarts. 

몮 몬I think the appointment of the Inquisitor is a first step 
toward ensuring that Hogwarts has a headmaster in 
whom we can all repose confidence,몭 said a Ministry 
insider last night. 



| 393Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Wizengamot elders Gris elda M archbanks and Tiberius 
Ogden have resigned in protest at the introduction of 
the post of Inquisitor to Hogwarts. 

몮 몬Hogwarts is a school, not an outpost of Cornelius 
Fudge몭s office,몭 said Madam Marchbanks. 몬This is a 
further disgusting attempt to discredit Albus 
Dumbledore.몭 (For a full account of Madam 
Marchbanks몭 alleged links to subversive goblin groups, 
turn to page 17].몯 

Hermione finished reading and looked across the 
table at the other two. 

몮So now we know how we ended up with Umbridge! 
Fudge passed this 몬Educational Decree몭 and forced 
her on us! And now he몭s given her the power to 
inspect other teachers!몯 Hermione was breathing fast 
and her eyes were very bright. 몮I can몭t believe this. It몭s 
outrageous...몯 

몮I know it is,몯 said Harry. He looked down at his right 
hand, clenched upon the tabletop, and saw the faint 
white outline of the words Umbridge had forced him 
to cut into his skin. 

But a grin was unfurling on Ron몭s face. 

몮What?몯 said Harry and Hermione together, staring at 
him. 

몮Oh, I can몭t wait to see McGonagall inspected,몯 said 
Ron happily. 몮Umbridge won몭t know what몭s hit her.몯 

몮Well, come on,몯 said Hermione, jumping up, 몮we몭d 
better get going, if she몭s inspecting Binns몭s class we 
don몭t want to be late...몯 



| 394Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




But Professor Umbridge was not inspecting their 
History of Magic lesson, which was just as dull as the 
previous Monday, nor was she in Snape몭s dungeon 
when they arrived for double Potions, where Harry몭s 
moonstone essay was handed back to him with a 
large, spiky black D scrawled in an upper corner. 

몮I have awarded you the grades you would have 
received if you presented this work in your O.W.L,몯 
said Snape with a smirk, as he swept among them, 
passing back their homework. 몮This should give you a 
realistic idea of what to expect in your examination.몯 

Snape reached the front of the class and turned to 
face them. 

몮The general standard of this homework was abysmal. 
Most of you would have failed had this been your 
examination. I expect to see a great deal more effort 
for this week몭s essay on the various varieties of venom 
antidotes, or I shall have to start handing out 
detentions to those dunces who get D몭s.몯 

He smirked as Malfoy sniggered and said in a 
carrying whisper, 몮Some people got D몭s? Ha!몯 

Harry realized that Hermione was looking sideways to 
see what grade he had received; he slid his 
moonstone essay back into his bag as quickly as 
possible, feeling that he would rather keep that 
information private. 

Determined not to give Snape an excuse to fail him 
this lesson, Harry read and reread every line of the 
instructions on the blackboard at least three times 
before acting on them. His Strengthening Solution 
was not precisely the clear turquoise shade of 
Hermione 몭s but it was at least blue rather than pink, 
like Neville몭s, and he delivered a flask of it to Snape몭s 
| 395Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




desk at the end of the lesson with a feeling of mingled 
defiance and relief. 

몮Well, that wasn몭t as bad as last week, was it?몯 said 
Hermione, as they climbed the steps out of the 
dungeon and made their way across the entrance hall 
toward lunch. 몮And the homework didn몭t go too badly 
either, did it?몯 

When neither Ron nor Harry answered, she pressed 
on, 몮I mean, all right, I didn몭t expect the top grade, 
not if he몭s marking to O.W.L. standard, but a pass is 
quite encouraging at this stage, wouldn몭t you say?몯 

Harry made a noncommittal noise in his throat. 

몮Of course, a lot can happen between now and the 
exam, we몭ve got plenty of time to improve, but the 
grades we몭re getting now are a sort of baseline, aren몭t 
they? Something we can build on ...몯 

They sat down together at the Gryffindor table. 

몮Obviously, I몭d have been thrilled if I몭d gotten an O 멪 몯 

몮Hermione,몯 said Ron sharply, 몮if you want to know 
what grades we got, ask.몯 

몮I don몭t 멪 I didn몭t mean 멪 well, if you want to tell me 



몮I got a P,몯 said Ron, ladling soup into his bowl. 
몮Happy?몯 

몮Well, that몭s nothing to be ashamed of,몯 said Fred, 
who had just arrived at the table with George and Lee 
Jordan and was sitting down on Harry몭s right. 
몮Nothing wrong with a good healthy P.몯 



| 396Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮But,몯 said Hermione, 몮doesn몭t P stand for ...몯 

몮 Boor,몭 yeah,몯 said Lee Jordan. 몮Still, better than D, 
isn몭t it? 몬Dreadful몭?몯 

Harry felt his face grow warm and faked a small 
coughing fit over his roll. When he emerged from this 
he was sorry to find that Hermione was still in full 
flow about O.W.L. grades. 

몮So top grade몭s O for 몬Outstanding,몭 몯 she was saying, 
몮and then there몭s A 멪 몯 

몮No, E,몯 George corrected her, 몮E for 몬Exceeds 
Expectations.몭 And I몭ve always thought Fred and I 
should몭ve got E in everything, because we exceeded 
expectations just by turning up for the exams.몯 

They all laughed except Hermione, who plowed on, 

몮So after E, it몭s A for 몬Acceptable,몭 and that몭s the last 
pass grade, isn몭t it?몯 

몮Yep,몯 said Fred, dunking an entire roll in his soup, 
transferring it to his mouth, and swallowing it whole. 

몮Then you get P for 몬Poor몭 몯 멪 Ron raised both his 
arms in mock celebration 멪 몮and D for 몬Dreadful.몭 몯 

몮And then T,몯 George reminded him. 

몮T?몯 asked Hermione, looking appalled. 몮Even lower 
than a D? What on earth does that stand for?몯 

몮 Troll,몭 몯 said George promptly. 

Harry laughed again, though he was not sure whether 
or not George was joking. He imagined trying to 
conceal from Hermione that he had received T몭s in all 



| 397Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




his O.W.L.s and immediately resolved to work harder 
from now on. 

몮You lot had an inspected lesson yet?몯 Fred asked 
them. 

몮No,몯 said Hermione at once, 몮have you?몯 

몮Just now, before lunch,몯 said George. 몮Charms.몯 

몮What was it like?몯 Harry and Hermione asked 
together. 

Fred shrugged. 

몮Not that bad. Umbridge just lurked in the corner 
making notes on a clipboard. You know what 
Flitwick몭s like, he treated her like a guest, didn몭t seem 
to bother him at all. She didn몭t say much. Asked 
Alicia a couple of questions about what the classes 
are normally like, Alicia told her they were really 
good, that was it.몯 

몮I can몭t see old Flitwick getting marked down,몯 said 
George, 몮he usually gets everyone through their 
exams all right.몯 

몮Who몭ve you got this afternoon?몯 Fred asked Harry. 
몮Trelawney 멪 몯 

몮A T if ever I saw one 멪 몯 

몮 멪 and Umbridge herself.몯 

몮Well, be a good boy and keep your temper with 
Umbridge today,몯 said George. 몮Angelina몭ll do her nut 
if you miss any more Quidditch practices.몯 



| 398Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




But Harry did not have to wait for Defense Against 
the Dark Arts to meet Professor Umbridge. He was 
pulling out his dream diary in a seat at the very back 
of the shadowy Divination room when Ron elbowed 
him in the ribs and, looking round, he saw Professor 
Umbridge emerging through the trapdoor in the floor. 
The class, which had been talking cheerily, fell silent 
at once. The abrupt fall in the noise level made 
Professor Trelawney, who had been wafting about 
handing out Dream Oracles, look round. 

몮Good afternoon, Professor Trelawney,몯 said Professor 
Umbridge with her wide smile. 몮You received my note, 

I trust? Giving the time and date of your inspection?몯 

Professor Trelawney nodded curtly and, looking very 
disgruntled, turned her back on Professor Umbridge 
and continued to give out books. Still smiling, 
Professor Umbridge grasped the back of the nearest 
armchair and pulled it to the front of the class so that 
it was a few inches behind Professor Trelawney몭s seat. 
She then sat down, took her clipboard from her 
flowery bag, and looked up expectantly, waiting for 
the class to begin. 

Professor Trelawney pulled her shawls tight about her 
with slightly trembling hands and surveyed the class 
through her hugely magnifying lenses. 몮We shall be 
continuing our study of prophetic dreams today,몯 she 
said in a brave attempt at her usual mystic tones, 
though her voice shook slightly. 몮Divide into pairs, 
please, and interpret each other몭s latest nighttime 
visions with the aid of the Oracle.몯 

She made as though to sweep back to her seat, saw 
Professor Umbridge sitting right beside it, and 
immediately veered left toward Parvati and Lavender, 
who were already deep in discussion about Parvati몭s 
most recent dream. 

| 399Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry opened his copy of The Dream Oracle, watching 
Umbridge covertly. She was making notes on her 
clipboard now. After a few minutes she got to her feet 
and began to pace the room in Trelawney몭s wake, 
listening to her conversations with students and 
posing questions here and there. Harry bent his head 
hurriedly over his book. 

몮Think of a dream, quick,몯 he told Ron, 몮in case the 
old toad comes our way.몯 

몮I did it last time,몯 Ron protested, 몮it몭s your turn, you 
tell me one.몯 

몮Oh, I dunno ...몯 said Harry desperately, who could 
not remember dreaming anything at all over the last 
few days. 몮Let몭s say I dreamed I was ... drowning 
Snape in my cauldron. Yeah, that몭ll do...몯 

Ron chortled as he opened his Dream Oracle. 

몮Okay, we몭ve got to add your age to the date you had 
the dream, the number of letters in the subject ... 
would that be 몬drowning몭 or 몬cauldron몭 or 몬Snape몭?몯 

몮It doesn몭t matter, pick any of them,몯 said Harry, 
chancing a glance behind him. Professor Umbridge 
was now standing at Professor Trelawney몭s shoulder 
making notes while the Divination teacher questioned 
Neville about his dream diary. 

몮What night did you dream this again?몯 Ron said, 
immersed in calculations. 

몮I dunno, last night, whenever you like,몯 Harry told 
him, trying to listen to what Umbridge was saying to 
Professor Trelawney. They were only a table away 
from him and Ron now. Professor Umbridge was 



| 400Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




making another note on her clipboard and Professor 
Trelawney was looking extremely put out. 

몮Now,몯 said Umbridge, looking up at Trelawney, 
몮you몭ve been in this post how long, exactly?몯 

Professor Trelawney scowled at her, arms crossed and 
shoulders hunched as though wishing to protect 
herself as much as possible from the indignity of the 
inspection. After a slight pause in which she seemed 
to decide that the question was not so offensive that 
she could reasonably ignore it, she said in a deeply 
resentful tone, 몮Nearly sixteen years.몯 

몮Quite a period,몯 said Professor Umbridge, making a 
note on her clipboard. 몮So it was Professor 
Dumbledore who appointed you?몯 

몮That몭s right,몯 said Professor Trelawney shortly. 

Professor Umbridge made another note. 

몮And you are a great-great-granddaughter of the 
celebrated Seer Cassandra Trelawney?몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Professor Trelawney, holding her head a 
little higher. 

Another note on the clipboard. 

몮But I think 멪 correct me if I am mistaken 멪 that 
you are the first in your family since Cassandra to be 
possessed of second sight?몯 

몮These things often skip 멪 er 멪 three generations,몯 
said Professor Trelawney. 

Professor Umbridge몭s toadlike smile widened. 



| 401Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Of course,몯 she said sweetly, making yet another 
note. 몮Well, if you could just predict something for 
me, then?몯 

She looked up inquiringly, still smiling. Professor 
Trelawney had stiffened as though unable to believe 
her ears. 

몮I don몭t understand you,몯 said Professor Trelawney, 
clutching convulsively at the shawl around her 
scrawny neck. 

몮I몭d like you to make a prediction for me,몯 said 
Professor Umbridge very clearly. 

Harry and Ron were not the only people watching and 
listening sneakily from behind their books now; most 
of the class were staring transfixed at Professor 
Trelawney as she drew herself up to her full height, 
her beads and bangles clinking. 

몮The Inner Eye does not See upon command!몯 she 
said in scandalized tones. 

몮I see,몯 said Professor Umbridge softly, making yet 
another note on her clipboard. 

몮I 멪 but 멪 but ... wait\몯 said Professor Trelawney 
suddenly, in an attempt at her usual ethereal voice, 
though the mystical effect was ruined somewhat by 
the way it was shaking with anger. 몮I ... I think I do 
see something ... something that concerns you... Why, 
I sense something . . . something dark . . . some grave 
peril ...몯 

Professor Trelawney pointed a shaking finger at 
Professor Umbridge who continued to smile blandly at 
her, eyebrows raised. 



| 402Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I am afraid ... I am afraid that you are in grave 
danger!몯 Professor Trelawney finished dramatically. 



There was a pause. Professor Umbridge몭s eyebrows 
were still raised. 

몮Right,몯 she said softly, scribbling on her clipboard 
once more. 몮Well, if that몭s really the best you can do 



She turned away, leaving Professor Trelawney 
standing rooted to the spot, her chest heaving. Harry 
caught Ron몭s eye and knew that Ron was thinking 
exactly the same as he was: They both knew that 
Professor Trelawney was an old fraud, but on the 
other hand, they loathed Umbridge so much that they 
felt very much on Trelawney몭s side 멪 until she 
swooped down on them a few seconds later, that was. 

몮Well?몯 she said, snapping her long fingers under 
Harry몭s nose, uncharacteristically brisk. 몮Let me see 
the start you몭ve made on your dream diary, please.몯 

And by the time she had interpreted Harry몭s dreams 
at the top of her voice (all of which, even the ones that 
involved eating porridge, apparently foretold a 
gruesome and early death), he was feeling much less 
sympathetic toward her. All the while, Professor 
Umbridge stood a few feet away, making notes on that 
clipboard, and when the bell rang she descended the 
silver ladder first so that she was waiting for them all 
when they reached their Defense Against the Dark 
Arts lesson ten minutes later. 

She was humming and smiling to herself when they 
entered the room. Harry and Ron told Hermione, who 
had been in Arithmancy, exactly what had happened 
in Divination while they all took out their copies of 
Defensive Magical Theory, but before Hermione could 
| 403Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




ask any questions Professor Umbridge had called 
them all to order and silence fell. 

몮Wands away,몯 she instructed them all smilingly, and 
those people who had been hopeful enough to take 
them out sadly returned them to their bags. 몮As we 
finished chapter one last lesson, I would like you all 
to turn to page nineteen today and commence chapter 
two, 몬Common Defensive Theories and Their 
Derivation. 몭 There will be no need to talk.몯 

Still smiling her wide, self-satisfied smile, she sat 
down at her desk. The class gave an audible sigh as it 
turned, as one, to page nineteen. Harry wondered 
dully whether there were enough chapters in the book 
to keep them reading through all this year몭s lessons 
and was on the point of checking the contents when 
he noticed that Hermione had her hand in the air 
again. 

Professor Umbridge had noticed too, and what was 
more, she seemed to have worked out a strategy for 
just such an eventuality. Instead of trying to pretend 
she had not noticed Hermione, she got to her feet and 
walked around the front row of desks until they were 
face-to-face, then she bent down and whispered, so 
that the rest of the class could not hear, 몮What is it 
this time, Miss Granger?몯 

몮I몭ve already read chapter two,몯 said Hermione. 

몮Well then, proceed to chapter three.몯 

몮I몭ve read that too. I몭ve read the whole book.몯 

Professor Umbridge blinked but recovered her poise 
almost instantly. 



| 404Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Well, then, you should be able to tell me what 
Slinkhard says about counterjinxes in chapter 
fifteen.몯 



몮He says that counterjinxes are improperly named,몯 
said Hermione promptly. 몮He says 몬counterjinx몭 is just 
a name people give their jinxes when they want to 
make them sound more acceptable.몯 

Professor Umbridge raised her eyebrows, and Harry 
knew she was impressed against her will. 

몮But I disagree,몯 Hermione continued. 

Professor Umbridge몭s eyebrows rose a little higher and 
her gaze became distinctly colder. 

몮You disagree?몯 

몮Yes, I do,몯 said Hermione, who, unlike Umbridge, 
was not whispering, but speaking in a clear, carrying 
voice that had by now attracted the rest of the class몭s 
attention. 몮Mr. Slinkhard doesn몭t like jinxes, does he? 
But I think they can be very useful when they몭re used 
defensively.몯 

몮Oh, you do, do you?몯 said Professor Umbridge, 
forgetting to whisper and straightening up. 몮Well, I몭m 
afraid it is Mr. Slinkhard 몭s opinion, and not yours, 
that matters within this classroom, Miss Granger.몯 

몮But 멪 몯 Hermione began. 

몮That is enough,몯 said Professor Umbridge. She 
walked back to the front of the class and stood before 
them, all the jauntiness she had shown at the 
beginning of the lesson gone. 몮Miss Granger, I am 
going to take five points from Gryffindor House.몯 

| 405Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




There was an outbreak of muttering at this. 

몮What for?몯 said Harry angrily. 

몮Don몭t you get involved!몯 Hermione whispered 
urgently to him. 

몮For disrupting my class with pointless 
interruptions,몯 said Professor Umbridge smoothly. 몮I 
am here to teach you using a Ministry-approved 
method that does not include inviting students to give 
their opinions on matters about which they 
understand very little. Your previous teachers in this 
subject may have allowed you more license, but as 
none of them 멪 with the possible exception of 
Professor Quirrell, who did at least appear to have 
restricted himself to age-appropriate subjects 멪 
would have passed a Ministry inspection 멪 몯 

몮Yeah, Quirrell was a great teacher,몯 said Harry 
loudly, 몮there was just that minor drawback of him 
having Lord Voldemort sticking out of the back of his 
head.몯 

This pronouncement was followed by one of the 
loudest silences Harry had ever heard. Then 멪 

몮I think another week몭s detentions would do you some 
good, Mr. Potter,몯 said Umbridge sleekly. 

k k k 



The cut on the back of Harry몭s hand had barely 
healed and by the following morning, it was bleeding 
again. He did not complain during the evening몭s 
detention; he was determined not to give Umbridge 
the satisfaction; over and over again he wrote I must 



| 406Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




not tell lies and not a sound escaped his lips, though 
the cut deepened with every letter. 

The very worst part of this second week몭s worth of 
detentions was, just as George had predicted, 
Angelina몭s reaction. She cornered him just as he 
arrived at the Gryffindor table for breakfast on 
Tuesday and shouted so loudly that Professor 
McGonagall came sweeping down upon the pair of 
them from the staff table. 

몮Miss Johnson, how dare you make such a racket in 
the Great Hall! Five points from Gryffindor!몯 

몮But Professor 멪 he몭s gone and landed himself in 
detention again 멪 몯 

몮What몭s this, Potter?몯 said Professor McGonagall 
sharply, rounding on Harry. 몮Detention? From 
whom?몯 

몮From Professor Umbridge,몯 muttered Harry, not 
meeting Professor McGonagall몭s beady, square-framed 
eyes. 

몮Are you telling me,몯 she said, lowering her voice so 
that the group of curious Ravenclaws behind them 
could not hear, 몮that after the warning I gave you last 
Monday you lost your temper in Professor Umbridge몭s 
class again?몯 

몮Yes,몯 Harry muttered, speaking to the floor. 

몮Potter, you must get a grip on yourself! You are 
heading for serious trouble! Another five points from 
Gryffindor!몯 



| 407Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮But 멪 what? Professor, no!몯 Harry said, furious at 
this injustice. 몮I몭m already being punished by her, 
why do you have to take points as well?몯 

몮Because detentions do not appear to have any effect 
on you whatsoever!몯 said Professor McGonagall tartly. 
몮No, not another word of complaint, Potter! And as for 
you, Miss Johnson, you will confine your shouting 
matches to the Quidditch pitch in future or risk 
losing the team Captaincy!몯 

She strode back toward the staff table. Angelina gave 
Harry a look of deepest disgust and stalked away, 
upon which Harry flung himself onto the bench 
beside Ron, fuming. 

몮She몭s taken points off Gryffindor because I몭m having 
my hand sliced open every night! How is that fair, 
how?몯 

몮I know, mate,몯 said Ron sympathetically, tipping 
bacon onto Harry몭s plate, 몮she몭s bang out of order.몯 

Hermione, however, merely rustled the pages of her 
Daily Prophet and said nothing. 

몮You think McGonagall was right, do you?몯 said Harry 
angrily to the picture of Cornelius Fudge obscuring 
Hermione 몭s face. 

몮I wish she hadn몭t taken points from you, but I think 
she몭s right to warn you not to lose your temper with 
Umbridge,몯 said Hermione몭s voice, while Fudge 
gesticulated forcefully from the front page, clearly 
giving some kind of speech. 

Harry did not speak to Hermione all through Charms, 
but when they entered Transfiguration he forgot his 
anger; Professor Umbridge and her clipboard were 

| 408Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




sitting in a corner and the sight of her drove the 
memory of breakfast right out of his head. 

몮Excellent,몯 whispered Ron, as they sat down in their 
usual seats. 몮Let몭s see Umbridge get what she 
deserves.몯 

Professor McGonagall marched into the room without 
giving the slightest indication that she knew Professor 
Umbridge was there. 

몮That will do,몯 she said and silence fell immediately. 
몮Mr. Finnigan, kindly come here and hand back the 
homework 멪 Miss Brown, please take this box of 
mice 멪 don몭t be silly, girl, they won몭t hurt you 멪 and 
hand one to each student 멪 몯 

몮Hem, hem,몯 said Professor Umbridge, employing the 
same silly little cough she had used to interrupt 
Dumbledore on the first night of term. Professor 
McGonagall ignored her. Seamus handed back 
Harry몭s essay; Harry took it without looking at him 
and saw, to his relief, that he had managed an A. 

몮Right then, everyone, listen closely 멪 Dean Thomas, 
if you do that to the mouse again I shall put you in 
detention 멪 most of you have now successfully 
vanished your snails and even those who were left 
with a certain amount of shell have the gist of the 
spell. Today we shall be 멪 몯 

몮Hem, hem,몯 said Professor Umbridge. 

몮Yes?몯 said Professor McGonagall, turning round, her 
eyebrows so close together they seemed to form one 
long, severe line. 



| 409Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I was just wondering, Professor, whether you 
received my note telling you of the date and time of 
your inspec 멪 몯 

몮Obviously I received it, or I would have asked you 
what you are doing in my classroom,몯 said Professor 
McGonagall, turning her back firmly on Professor 
Umbridge. Many of the students exchanged looks of 
glee. 몮As I was saying, today we shall be practicing 
the altogether more difficult vanishment of mice. Now, 
the Vanishing Spell 멪 몯 

몮Hem, hem.몯 

몮I wonder,몯 said Professor McGonagall in cold fury, 
turning on Professor Umbridge, 몮how you expect to 
gain an idea of my usual teaching methods if you 
continue to interrupt me? You see, I do not generally 
permit people to talk when I am talking.몯 

Professor Umbridge looked as though she had just 
been slapped in the face. She did not speak, but 
straightened the parchment on her clipboard and 
began scribbling furiously. Looking supremely 
unconcerned, Professor McGonagall addressed the 
class once more. 

몮As I was saying, the Vanishing Spell becomes more 
difficult with the complexity of the animal to be 
vanished. The snail, as an invertebrate, does not 
present much of a challenge; the mouse, as a 
mammal, offers a much greater one. This is not, 
therefore, magic you can accomplish with your mind 
on your dinner. So 멪 you know the incantation, let 
me see what you can do...몯 

몮How she can lecture me about not losing my temper 
with Umbridge!몯 Harry said to Ron under his voice, 



| 410Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




but he was grinning; his anger with Professor 
McGonagall had quite evaporated. 

Professor Umbridge did not follow Professor 
McGonagall around the class as she had followed 
Professor Trelawney; perhaps she thought that 
Professor McGonagall would not permit it. She did, 
however, take many more notes while she sat in her 
corner, and when Professor McGonagall finally told 
them all to pack away, rose with a grim expression on 
her face. 

몮Well, it몭s a start,몯 said Ron, holding up a long, 
wriggling mouse tail and dropping it back into the box 
Lavender was passing around. 

As they filed out of the classroom, Harry saw 
Professor Umbridge approach the teacher몭s desk; he 
nudged Ron, who nudged Hermione in turn, and the 
three of them deliberately fell back to eavesdrop. 

몮How long have you been teaching at Hogwarts?몯 
Professor Umbridge asked. 

몮Thirty-nine years this December,몯 said Professor 
McGonagall brusquely, snapping her bag shut. 

Professor Umbridge made a note. 

몮Very well,몯 she said, 몮you will receive the results of 
your inspection in ten days몭 time.몯 

몮I can hardly wait,몯 said Professor McGonagall in a 
coldly indifferent voice, and she strode off toward the 
door. 몮Hurry up, you three,몯 she added, sweeping 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione before her. Harry could not 
help giving her a faint smile and could have sworn he 
received one in return. 



| 411Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He had thought that the next time he would see 
Umbridge would be in his detention that evening, but 
he was wrong. When they walked down the lawns 
toward the forest for Care of Magical Creatures, they 
found her and her clipboard waiting for them beside 
Professor Grubbly-Plank. 

몮You do not usually take this class, is that correct?몯 
Harry heard her ask as they arrived at the trestle 
table where the group of captive bowtruckles were 
scrabbling around for wood lice like so many living 
twigs. 

몮Quite correct,몯 said Professor Grubbly-Plank, hands 
behind her back and bouncing on the balls of her 
feet. 몮I am a substitute teacher standing in for 
Professor Hagrid.몯 

Harry exchanged uneasy looks with Ron and 
Hermione. Malfoy was whispering with Crabbe and 
Goyle; he would surely love this opportunity to tell 
tales on Hagrid to a member of the Ministry. 

몮Hmm,몯 said Professor Umbridge, dropping her voice, 
though Harry could still hear her quite clearly, 몮I 
wonder 멪 the headmaster seems strangely reluctant 
to give me any information on the matter 멪 can you 
tell me what is causing Professor Hagrid몭s very 
extended leave of absence?몯 

Harry saw Malfoy look up eagerly. 

몮 몭Fraid I can몭t,몯 said Professor Grubbly-Plank 
breezily. 몮Don몭t know anything more about it than 
you do. Got an owl from Dumbledore, would I like a 
couple of weeks teaching work, accepted 멪 that몭s as 
much as I know. Well ... shall I get started then?몯 



| 412Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Yes, please do,몯 said Professor Umbridge, scribbling 
upon her clipboard. 

Umbridge took a different tack in this class and 
wandered among the students, questioning them on 
magical creatures. Most people were able to answer 
well and Harry몭s spirits lifted somewhat; at least the 
class was not letting Hagrid down. 

몮Overall,몯 said Professor Umbridge, returning to 
Professor Grubbly-Plank몭s side after a lengthy 
interrogation of Dean Thomas, 몮how do you, as a 
temporary member of staff 멪 an objective outsider, I 
suppose you might say 멪 how do you find Hogwarts? 
Do you feel you receive enough support from the 
school management?몯 

몮Oh, yes, Dumbledore몭s excellent,몯 said Professor 
Grubbly-Plank heartily. 몮No, I몭m very happy with the 
way things are run, very happy indeed.몯 

Looking politely incredulous, Umbridge made a tiny 
note on her clipboard and went on, 몮And what are you 
planning to cover with this class this year 멪 
assuming, of course, that Professor Hagrid does not 
return?몯 

몮Oh, I몭ll take them through the creatures that most 
often come up in O.W.L.,몯 said Professor Grubbly- 
Plank. 몮Not much left to do 멪 they몭ve studied 
unicorns and nifflers, I thought we몭d cover porlocks 
and kneazles, make sure they can recognize crups 
and knarls, you know...몯 

몮Well, you seem to know what you몭re doing, at any 
rate,몯 said Professor Umbridge, making a very obvious 
tick on her clipboard. Harry did not like the emphasis 
she put on 몮you몯 and liked it even less when she put 



| 413Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




her next question to Goyle: 몮Now, I hear there have 
been injuries in this class?몯 

Goyle gave a stupid grin. Malfoy hastened to answer 
the question. 

몮That was me,몯 he said. 몮I was slashed by a 
hippogriff.몯 

몮A hippogriff?몯 said Professor Umbridge, now 
scribbling frantically. 

몮Only because he was too stupid to listen to what 
Hagrid told him to do,몯 said Harry angrily. 

Both Ron and Hermione groaned. Professor Umbridge 
turned her head slowly in Harry몭s direction. 

몮Another night몭s detention, I think,몯 she said softly. 
몮Well, thank you very much, Professor Grubbly-Plank, 
I think that몭s all I need here. You will be receiving the 
results of your inspection within ten days.몯 

몮Jolly good,몯 said Professor Grubbly-Plank, and 
Professor Umbridge set off back across the lawn to 
the castle. 



ie ie ie 



It was nearly midnight when Harry left Umbridge몭s 
office that night, his hand now bleeding so severely 
that it was staining the scarf he had wrapped around 
it. He expected the common room to be empty when 
he returned, but Ron and Hermione had sat up 
waiting for him. He was pleased to see them, 
especially as Hermione was disposed to be 
sympathetic rather than critical. 



| 414Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Here,몯 she said anxiously, pushing a small bowl of 
yellow liquid toward him, 몮soak your hand in that, it몭s 
a solution of strained and pickled murtlap tentacles, 
it should help.몯 

Harry placed his bleeding, aching hand into the bowl 
and experienced a wonderful feeling of relief. 
Crookshanks curled around his legs, purring loudly, 
and then leapt into his lap and settled down. 

몮Thanks,몯 he said gratefully, scratching behind 
Crookshanks 몭s ears with his left hand. 

몮I still reckon you should complain about this,몯 said 
Ron in a low voice. 

몮No,몯 said Harry flatly. 

몮McGonagall would go nuts if she knew 멪 몯 

몮Yeah, she probably would,몯 said Harry. 몮And how 
long d몭you reckon it몭d take Umbridge to pass another 
Decree saying anyone who complains about the High 
Inquisitor gets sacked immediately?몯 

Ron opened his mouth to retort but nothing came out 
and after a moment he closed it again in a defeated 
sort of way. 

몮She몭s an awful woman,몯 said Hermione in a small 
voice. 몮Awful. You know, I was just saying to Ron 
when you came in ... we몭ve got to do something about 
her.몯 " 

몮I suggested poison,몯 said Ron grimly. 

몮No ... I mean, something about what a dreadful 
teacher she is, and how we몭re not going to learn any 
defense from her at all,몯 said Hermione. 

| 415Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Well, what can we do about that?몯 said Ron, 
yawning. 몮 몭S too late, isn몭t it? She got the job, she몭s 
here to stay, Fudge몭ll make sure of that.몯 

몮Well,몯 said Hermione tentatively. 몮You know, I was 
thinking today...몯 She shot a slightly nervous look at 
Harry and then plunged on, 몮I was thinking that 멪 
maybe the time몭s come when we should just 멪 just 
do it ourselves.몯 

몮Do what ourselves?몯 said Harry suspiciously, still 
floating his hand in the essence of murtlap tentacles. 

몮Well 멪 learn Defense Against the Dark Arts 
ourselves,몯 said Hermione. 

몮Come off it,몯 groaned Ron. 몮You want us to do extra 
work? D몭you realize Harry and I are behind on 
homework again and it몭s only the second week?몯 

몮But this is much more important than homework!몯 
said Hermione. 

Harry and Ron goggled at her. 

몮I didn몭t think there was anything in the universe 
more important than homework,몯 said Ron. 

몮Don몭t be silly, of course there is!몯 said Hermione, and 
Harry saw, with an ominous feeling, that her face was 
suddenly alight with the kind of fervor that S.P.E.W. 
usually inspired in her. 몮It몭s about preparing 
ourselves, like Harry said in Umbridge몭s first lesson, 
for what몭s waiting out there. It몭s about making sure 
we really can defend ourselves. If we don몭t learn 
anything for a whole year 멪 몯 

몮We can몭t do much by ourselves,몯 said Ron in a 
defeated voice. 몮I mean, all right, we can go and look 

| 416Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




jinxes up in the library and try and practice them, I 
suppose 멪 몯 

몮No, I agree, we몭ve gone past the stage where we can 
just learn things out of books,몯 said Hermione. 몮We 
need a teacher, a proper one, who can show us how 
to use the spells and correct us if we몭re going wrong.몯 

몮If you몭re talking about Lupin ...몯 Harry began. 

몮No, no, I몭m not talking about Lupin,몯 said Hermione. 
몮He몭s too busy with the Order and anyway, the most 
we could see him is during Hogsmeade weekends and 
that몭s not nearly often enough.몯 

몮Who, then?몯 said Harry, frowning at her. 

Hermione heaved a very deep sigh. 

몮Isn몭t it obvious?몯 she said. 몮I몭m talking about you, 
Harry.몯 

There was a moment몭s silence. A light night breeze 
rattled the windowpanes behind Ron and the fire 
guttered. 

몮About me what?몯 said Harry. 

몮I몭m talking about you teaching us Defense Against 
the Dark Arts.몯 

Harry stared at her. Then he turned to Ron, ready to 
exchange the exasperated looks they sometimes 
shared when Hermione elaborated on far-fetched 
schemes like S.P.E.W. To Harry몭s consternation, 
however, Ron did not look exasperated. He was 
frowning slightly, apparently thinking. Then he said, 
몮That몭s an idea.몯 



| 417Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮What몭s an idea?몯 said Harry. 

몮You,몯 said Ron. 몮Teaching us to do it.몯 

몮But ...몯 

Harry was grinning now, sure the pair of them were 
pulling his leg. 

몮But I몭m not a teacher, I can몭t 멪 몯 

몮Harry, you몭re the best in the year at Defense Against 
the Dark Arts,몯 said Hermione. 

몮Me?몯 said Harry, now grinning more broadly than 
ever. 몮No I몭m not, you몭ve beaten me in every test 멪 몯 

몮Actually, I haven몭t,몯 said Hermione coolly. 몮You beat 
me in our third year 멪 the only year we both sat the 
test and had a teacher who actually knew the subject 
But I몭m not talking about test results, Harry. Look 
what you몭ve done\몯 

몮How d몭you mean?몯 

몮You know what, I몭m not sure I want someone this 
stupid teaching me,몯 Ron said to Hermione, smirking 
slightly. He turned to Harry. 몮Let몭s think,몯 he said, 
pulling a face like Goyle concentrating. 몮Uh . . . first 
year 멪 you saved the Stone from You-Know-Who.몯 

몮But that was luck,몯 said Harry, 몮that wasn몭t skill 멪 몯 

몮Second year,몯 Ron interrupted, 몮you killed the 
basilisk and destroyed Riddle.몯 

몮Yeah, but if Fawkes hadn몭t turned up I 멪 몯 



| 418Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Third year,몯 said Ron, louder still, 몮you fought off 
about a hundred dementors at once 멪 몯 

몮You know that was a fluke, if the Time-Turner hadn몭t 
?? 



몮Last year,몯 Ron said, almost shouting now, 몮you 
fought off You-Know-Who again 멪 몯 

몮Listen to me!몯 said Harry, almost angrily, because 
Ron and Hermione were both smirking now. 몮Just 
listen to me, all right? It sounds great when you say it 
like that, but all that stuff was luck 멪 I didn몭t know 
what I was doing half the time, I didn몭t plan any of it, 

I just did whatever I could think of, and I nearly 
always had help 멪 몯 

Ron and Hermione were still smirking and Harry felt 
his temper rise; he wasn몭t even sure why he was 
feeling so angry. 

몮Don몭t sit there grinning like you know better than I 
do, I was there, wasn몭t I?몯 he said heatedly. 몮I know 
what went on, all right? And I didn몭t get through any 
of that because I was brilliant at Defense Against the 
Dark Arts, I got through it all because 멪 because 
help came at the right time, or because I guessed 
right 멪 but I just blundered through it all, I didn몭t 
have a clue what I was doing 멪 STOP LAUGHING!몯 

The bowl of murtlap essence fell to the floor and 
smashed. He became aware that he was on his feet, 
though he couldn몭t remember standing up. 
Crookshanks streaked away under a sofa; Ron and 
Hermione 몭s smiles had vanished. 

몮 You don몭t know what it몭s likel You 멪 neither of you 
멪 you몭ve never had to face him, have you? You think 
it몭s just memorizing a bunch of spells and throwing 

| 419Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




them at him, like you몭re in class or something? The 
whole time you know there몭s nothing between you 
and dying except your own 멪 your own brain or guts 
or whatever 멪 like you can think straight when you 
know you몭re about a second from being murdered, or 
tortured, or watching your friends die 멪 they몭ve never 
taught us that in their classes, what it몭s like to deal 
with things like that 멪 and you two sit there acting 
like I몭m a clever little boy to be standing here, alive, 
like Diggory was stupid, like he messed up 멪 you just 
don몭t get it, that could just as easily have been me, it 
would have been if Voldemort hadn몭t needed me 멪 몯 

몮We weren몭t saying anything like that, mate,몯 said 
Ron, looking aghast. 몮We weren몭t having a go at 
Diggory, we didn몭t 멪 you몭ve got the wrong end of the 



He looked helplessly at Hermione, whose face was 
stricken. 

몮Harry,몯 she said timidly, 몮don몭t you see? This ... this 
is exactly why we need you... We need to know what 
it몭s r-really like ... facing him ... facing V-Voldemort.몯 

It was the first time she had ever said Voldemort몭s 
name, and it was this, more than anything else, that 
calmed Harry. Still breathing hard, he sank back into 
his chair, becoming aware as he did so that his hand 
was throbbing horribly again. He wished he had not 
smashed the bowl of murtlap essence. 

몮Well ... think about it,몯 said Hermione quietly. 
몮Please?몯 

Harry could not think of anything to say. He was 
feeling ashamed of his outburst already. He nodded, 
hardly aware of what he was agreeing to. 



| 420Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione stood up. 

몮Well, I몭m off to bed,몯 she said in a voice that was 
clearly as natural as she could make it. 몮Erm ... 
몭night.몯 

Ron had gotten to his feet too. 

몮Coming?몯 he said awkwardly to Harry. 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry. 몮In ... in a minute. I몭ll just clear 
this up.몯 

He indicated the smashed bowl on the floor. Ron 
nodded and left. 

몮Reparo,몯 Harry muttered, pointing his wand at the 
broken pieces of china. They flew back together, good 
as new, but there was no returning the murtlap 
essence to the bowl. 

He was suddenly so tired that he was tempted to sink 
back into his armchair and sleep there, but instead 
he got to his feet and followed Ron upstairs. His 
restless night was punctuated once more by dreams 
of long corridors and locked doors, and he awoke next 
day with his scar prickling again. 



| 421Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 







IN THE HOG몭S HEAD 

Hermione made no mention of Harry giving Defense 
Against the Dark Arts lessons for two whole weeks 
after her original suggestion. Harry몭s detentions with 
Umbridge were finally over (he doubted whether the 
words now etched on the back of his hand would ever 
fade entirely); Ron had had four more Quidditch 
practices and not been shouted at during the last 
two; and all three of them had managed to vanish 
their mice in Transfiguration (Hermione had actually 
progressed to vanishing kittens), before the subject 
was broached again, on a wild, blustery evening at 
the end of September, when the three of them were 
sitting in the library, looking up potion ingredients for 
Snape. 

몮I was wondering,몯 Hermione said suddenly, 몮whether 
you몭d thought any more about Defense Against the 
Dark Arts, Harry.몯 

몮 몭Course I have,몯 said Harry grumpily. 몮Can몭t forget it, 
can we, with that hag teaching us 멪 몯 



| 422Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



몮I meant the idea Ron and I had몯 멪 Ron cast her an 
alarmed, threatening kind of look; she frowned at him 
멪 몮oh, all right, the idea / had, then 멪 about you 
teaching us.몯 

Harry did not answer at once. He pretended to be 
perusing a page of Asiatic Anti-Venoms, because he 
did not want to say what was in his mind. 

The fact was that he had given the matter a great deal 
of thought over the past fortnight. Sometimes it 
seemed an insane idea, just as it had on the night 
Hermione had proposed it, but at others, he had 
found himself thinking about the spells that had 
served him best in his various encounters with Dark 
creatures and Death Eaters 멪 found himself, in fact, 
subconsciously planning lessons... 

몮Well,몯 he said slowly, when he could not pretend to 
find Asiatic anti-venoms interesting much longer, 
몮yeah, I 멪 I몭ve thought about it a bit.몯 

몮And?몯 said Hermione eagerly. 

몮I dunno,몯 said Harry, playing for time. He looked up 
at Ron. 

몮I thought it was a good idea from the start,몯 said 
Ron, who seemed keener to join in this conversation 
now that he was sure that Harry was not going to 
start shouting again. 

Harry shifted uncomfortably in his chair. 

몮You did listen to what I said about a load of it being 
luck, didn몭t you?몯 

몮Yes, Harry,몯 said Hermione gently, 몮but all the same, 
there몭s no point pretending that you몭re not good at 

| 423Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Defense Against the Dark Arts, because you are. You 
were the only person last year who could throw off the 
Imperius Curse completely, you can produce a 
Patronus, you can do all sorts of stuff that full-grown 
wizards can몭t, Viktor always said 멪 몯 

Ron looked around at her so fast he appeared to crick 
his neck; rubbing it, he said, 몮Yeah? What did Vicky 
say?몯 

몮Ho ho,몯 said Hermione in a bored voice. 몮He said 
Harry knew how to do stuff even he didn몭t, and he 
was in the final year at Durmstrang.몯 

Ron was looking at Hermione suspiciously. 

몮You몭re not still in contact with him, are you?몯 

몮So what if I am?몯 said Hermione coolly, though her 
face was a little pink. 몮I can have a pen pal if I 멪 몯 

몮He didn몭t only want to be your pen pal,몯 said Ron 
accusingly. 

Hermione shook her head exasperatedly and, ignoring 
Ron, who was continuing to watch her, said to Harry, 
몮Well, what do you think? Will you teach us?몯 

몮Just you and Ron, yeah?몯 

몮Well,몯 said Hermione, now looking a mite anxious 
again. 몮Well ... now, don몭t fly off the handle again, 
Harry, please... But I really think you ought to teach 
anyone who wants to learn. I mean, we몭re talking 
about defending ourselves against V-Voldemort 멪 oh, 
don몭t be pathetic, Ron 멪 it doesn몭t seem fair if we 
don몭t offer the chance to other people.몯 



| 424Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry considered this for a moment, then said, 몮Yeah, 
but I doubt anyone except you two would want to be 
taught by me. I몭m a nutter, remember?몯 

몮Well, I think you might be surprised how many 
people would be interested in hearing what you몭ve got 
to say,몯 said Hermione seriously. 몮Look,몯 she leaned 
toward him; Ron, who was still watching her with a 
frown on his face, leaned forward to listen too, 몮you 
know the first weekend in October몭s a Hogsmeade 
weekend? How would it be if we tell anyone who몭s 
interested to meet us in the village and we can talk it 
over?몯 

몮Why do we have to do it outside school?몯 said Ron. 

몮Because,몯 said Hermione, returning to the diagram of 
the Chinese Chomping Cabbage she was copying, 몮I 
don몭t think Umbridge would be very happy if she 
found out what we were up to.몯 

Harry had been looking forward to the weekend trip 
into Hogsmeade, but there was one thing worrying 
him. Sirius had maintained a stony silence since he 
had appeared in the fire at the beginning of 
September; Harry knew they had made him angry by 
saying that they did not want him to come 멪 but he 
still worried from time to time that Sirius might throw 
caution to the winds and turn up anyway. What were 
they going to do if the great black dog came bounding 
up the street toward them in Hogsmeade, perhaps 
under the nose of Draco Malfoy? 

몮Well, you can몭t blame him for wanting to get out and 
about,몯 said Ron, when Harry discussed his fears 
with him and Hermione. 몮I mean, he몭s been on the 
run for over two years, hasn몭t he, and I know that 
can몭t have been a laugh, but at least he was free, 



| 425Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




wasn몭t he? And now he몭s just shut up all the time 
with that lunatic elf.몯 

Hermione scowled at Ron, but otherwise ignored the 
slight on Kreacher. 

몮The trouble is,몯 she said to Harry, 몮until V-Voldemort 
멪 oh for heaven몭s sake, Ron 멪 comes out into the 
open, Sirius is going to have to stay hidden, isn몭t he? I 
mean, the stupid Ministry isn몭t going to realize Sirius 
is innocent until they accept that Dumbledore몭s been 
telling the truth about him all along. And once the 
fools start catching real Death Eaters again it몭ll be 
obvious Sirius isn몭t one ... I mean, he hasn몭t got the 
Mark, for one thing.몯 

몮I don몭t reckon he몭d be stupid enough to turn up,몯 
said Ron bracingly. 몮Dumbledore몭d go mad if he did 
and Sirius listens to Dumbledore even if he doesn몭t 
like what he hears.몯 

When Harry continued to look worried, Hermione 
said, 몮Listen, Ron and I have been sounding out 
people who we thought might want to learn some 
proper Defense Against the Dark Arts, and there are a 
couple who seem interested. We몭ve told them to meet 
us in Hogsmeade.몯 

몮Right,몯 said Harry vaguely, his mind still on Sirius. 

몮Don몭t worry, Harry,몯 Hermione said quietly. 몮You몭ve 
got enough on your plate without Sirius too.몯 

She was quite right, of course; he was barely keeping 
up with his homework, though he was doing much 
better now that he was no longer spending every 
evening in detention with Umbridge. Ron was even 
further behind with his work than Harry, because 
while they both had Quidditch practices twice a week, 
| 426Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Ron also had prefect duties. However, Hermione, who 
was taking more subjects than either of them, had 
not only finished all her homework but was also 
finding time to knit more elf clothes. Harry had to 
admit that she was getting better; it was now almost 
always possible to distinguish between the hats and 
the socks. 

The morning of the Hogsmeade visit dawned bright 
but windy. After breakfast they queued up in front of 
Filch, who matched their names to the long list of 
students who had permission from their parents or 
guardian to visit the village. With a slight pang, Harry 
remembered that if it hadn몭t been for Sirius, he would 
not have been going at all. 

When Harry reached Filch, the caretaker gave a great 
sniff as though trying to detect a whiff of something 
from Harry. Then he gave a curt nod that set his jowls 
aquiver again and Harry walked on, out onto the 
stone steps and the cold, sunlit day. 

몮Er 멪 why was Filch sniffing you?몯 asked Ron, as he, 
Harry, and Hermione set off at a brisk pace down the 
wide drive to the gates. 

몮I suppose he was checking for the smell of 
Dungbombs,몯 said Harry with a small laugh. 몮I forgot 
to tell you ...몯 

And he recounted the story of sending his letter to 
Sirius and Filch bursting in seconds later, demanding 
to see the letter. To his slight surprise, Hermione 
found this story highly interesting, much more, 
indeed, than he did himself. 

몮He said he was tipped off you were ordering 
Dungbombs? But who had tipped him off?몯 



| 427Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I dunno,몯 said Harry, shrugging. 몮Maybe Malfoy, he몭d 
think it was a laugh.몯 

They walked between the tall stone pillars topped 
with winged boars and turned left onto the road into 
the village, the wind whipping their hair into their 
eyes. 

몮Malfoy?몯 said Hermione, very skeptically. 몮Well ... yes 
... maybe ...몯 

And she remained deep in thought all the way into 
the outskirts of Hogsmeade. 

몮Where are we going anyway?몯 Harry asked. 몮The 
Three Broomsticks?몯 

몮Oh 멪 no,몯 said Hermione, coming out of her reverie, 
몮no, it몭s always packed and really noisy. I몭ve told the 
others to meet us in the Hog몭s Head, that other pub, 
you know the one, it몭s not on the main road. I think 
it몭s a bit ... you know ... dodgy ... but students don몭t 
normally go in there, so I don몭t think we몭ll be 
overheard.몯 

They walked down the main street past Zonko몭s Joke 
Shop, where they were unsurprised to see Fred, 
George, and Lee Jordan, past the post office, from 
which owls issued at regular intervals, and turned up 
a side street at the top of which stood a small inn. A 
battered wooden sign hung from a rusty bracket over 
the door, with a picture upon it of a wild boar몭s 
severed head leaking blood onto the white cloth 
around it. The sign creaked in the wind as they 
approached. All three of them hesitated outside the 
door. 

몮Well, come on,몯 said Hermione slightly nervously. 
Harry led the way inside. 

| 428Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




It was not at all like the Three Broomsticks, whose 
large bar gave an impression of gleaming warmth and 
cleanliness. The Hog몭s Head bar comprised one small, 
dingy, and very dirty room that smelled strongly of 
something that might have been goats. The bay 
windows were so encrusted with grime that very little 
daylight could permeate the room, which was lit 
instead with the stubs of candles sitting on rough 
wooden tables. The floor seemed at first glance to be 
earthy, though as Harry stepped onto it he realized 
that there was stone beneath what seemed to be the 
accumulated filth of centuries. 

Harry remembered Hagrid mentioning this pub in his 
first year: 몮Yeh get a lot o몭 funny folk in the Hog몭s 
Head,몯 he had said, explaining how he had won a 
dragons egg from a hooded stranger there. At the time 
Harry had wondered why Hagrid had not found it odd 
that the stranger kept his face hidden throughout 
their encounter; now he saw that keeping your face 
hidden was something of a fashion in the Hog몭s Head. 
There was a man at the bar whose whole head was 
wrapped in dirty gray bandages, though he was still 
managing to gulp endless glasses of some smoking, 
fiery substance through a slit over his mouth. Two 
figures shrouded in hoods sat at a table in one of the 
windows; Harry might have thought them dementors 
if they had not been talking in strong Yorkshire 
accents; in a shadowy corner beside the fireplace sat 
a witch with a thick, black veil that fell to her toes. 
They could just see the tip of her nose because it 
caused the veil to protrude slightly. 

몮I don몭t know about this, Hermione,몯 Harry muttered, 
as they crossed to the bar. He was looking 
particularly at the heavily veiled witch. 몮Has it 
occurred to you Umbridge might be under that?몯 

Hermione cast an appraising eye at the veiled figure. 

| 429Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Umbridge is shorter than that woman,몯 she said 
quietly. 몮And anyway, even if Umbridge does come in 
here there몭s nothing she can do to stop us, Harry, 
because I몭ve double- and triple-checked the school 
rules. We몭re not out-of-bounds; I specifically asked 
Professor Flitwick whether students were allowed to 
come in the Hog몭s Head, and he said yes, but he 
advised me strongly to bring our own glasses. And I몭ve 
looked up everything I can think of about study 
groups and homework groups and they몭re definitely 
allowed. I just don몭t think it몭s a good idea if we parade 
what we몭re doing.몯 

몮No,몯 said Harry dryly, 몮especially as it몭s not exactly a 
homework group you몭re planning, is it?몯 

The barman sidled toward them out of a back room. 
He was a grumpy-looking old man with a great deal of 
long gray hair and beard. He was tall and thin and 
looked vaguely familiar to Harry. 

몮What?몯 he grunted. 

몮Three butterbeers, please,몯 said Hermione. 

The man reached beneath the counter and pulled up 
three very dusty, very dirty bottles, which he 
slammed on the bar. 

몮Six Sickles,몯 he said. 

몮I몭ll get them,몯 said Harry quickly, passing over the 
silver. The barman몭s eyes traveled over Harry, resting 
for a fraction of a second on his scar. Then he turned 
away and deposited Harry몭s money in an ancient 
wooden till whose drawer slid open automatically to 
receive it. Harry, Ron, and Hermione retreated to the 
farthest table from the bar and sat down, looking 
around, while the man in the dirty gray bandages 
| 430Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




rapped the counter with his knuckles and received 
another smoking drink from the barman. 



몮You know what?몯 Ron murmured, looking over at the 
bar with enthusiasm. 몮We could order anything we 
liked in here, I bet that bloke would sell us anything, 
he wouldn몭t care. I몭ve always wanted to try firewhisky 



몮You 멪 are 멪 a 멪 prefect,몯 snarled Hermione. 

몮Oh,몯 said Ron, the smile fading from his face. 몮Yeah 



몮So who did you say is supposed to be meeting us?몯 
Harry asked, wrenching open the rusty top of his 
butterbeer and taking a swig. 

몮Just a couple of people,몯 Hermione repeated, 
checking her watch and then looking anxiously 
toward the door. 몮I told them to be here about now 
and I몭m sure they all know where it is 멪 oh look, this 
might be them now 멪 몯 

The door of the pub had opened. A thick band of 
dusty sunlight split the room in two for a moment 
and then vanished, blocked by the incoming rush of a 
crowd of people. 

First came Neville with Dean and Lavender, who were 
closely followed by Parvati and Padma Patil with 
(Harry몭s stomach did a back flip) Cho and one of her 
usually giggling girlfriends, then (on her own and 
looking so dreamy that she might have walked in by 
accident) Luna Lovegood; then Katie Bell, Alicia 
Spinnet, and Angelina Johnson, Colin and Dennis 
Creevey, Ernie Macmillan, Justin Finch-Fletchley, 
Hannah Abbott, and a Hufflepuff girl with a long plait 
down her back whose name Harry did not know; 

| 431Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




three Ravenclaw boys he was pretty sure were called 
Anthony Goldstein, Michael Corner, and Terry Boot; 
Ginny, followed by a tall skinny blond boy with an 
upturned nose whom Harry recognized vaguely as 
being a member of the Hufflepuff Quidditch team, and 
bringing up the rear, Fred and George Weasley with 
their friend Lee Jordan, all three of whom were 
carrying large paper bags crammed with Zonko몭s 
merchandise. 

몮A couple of people?몯 said Harry hoarsely to 
Hermione. 몮A couple of people ?몯 

몮Yes, well, the idea seemed quite popular,몯 said 
Hermione happily. 몮Ron, do you want to pull up some 
more chairs?몯 

The barman had frozen in the act of wiping out a 
glass with a rag so filthy it looked as though it had 
never been washed. Possibly he had never seen his 
pub so full. 

몮Hi,몯 said Fred, reaching the bar first and counting 
his companions quickly. 몮Could we have . . . twenty- 
five butterbeers, please?몯 

The barman glared at him for a moment, then, 
throwing down his rag irritably as though he had 
been interrupted in something very important, he 
started passing up dusty butterbeers from under the 
bar. 

몮Cheers,몯 said Fred, handing them out. 몮Cough up, 
everyone, I haven몭t got enough gold for all of these...몯 

Harry watched numbly as the large chattering group 
took their beers from Fred and rummaged in their 
robes to find coins. He could not imagine what all 
these people had turned up for until the horrible 

| 432Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




thought occurred to him that they might be expecting 
some kind of speech, at which he rounded on 
Hermione. 

몮What have you been telling people?몯 he said in a low 
voice. 몮What are they expecting?몯 

몮I몭ve told you, they just want to hear what you몭ve got 
to say,몯 said Hermione soothingly; but Harry 
continued to look at her so furiously that she added 
quickly, 몮You don몭t have to do anything yet, I몭ll speak 
to them first.몯 

몮Hi, Harry,몯 said Neville, beaming and taking a seat 
opposite Harry. 

Harry tried to smile back, but did not speak; his 
mouth was exceptionally dry. Cho had just smiled at 
him and sat down on Ron몭s right. Her friend, who had 
curly reddish-blonde hair, did not smile, but gave 
Harry a thoroughly mistrustful look that told Harry 
plainly that, given her way, she would not be here at 
all. 

In twos and threes the new arrivals settled around 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione, some looking rather 
excited, others curious, Luna Lovegood gazing 
dreamily into space. When everybody had pulled up a 
chair, the chatter died out. Every eye was upon 
Harry. 

몮Er,몯 said Hermione, her voice slightly higher than 
usual out of nerves. 몮Well 멪 er 멪 hi.몯 

The group focused its attention on her instead, 
though eyes continued to dart back regularly to 
Harry. 



| 433Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Well ... erm ... well, you know why you몭re here. Erm 
... well, Harry here had the idea 멪 I mean몯 멪 Harry 
had thrown her a sharp look 멪 몮I had the idea 멪 that 
it might be good if people who wanted to study 
Defense Against the Dark Arts 멪 and I mean, really 
study it, you know, not the rubbish that Umbridge is 
doing with us몯 멪 (Hermione몭s voice became suddenly 
much stronger and more confident) 멪 몮because 
nobody could call that Defense Against the Dark Arts몯 
멪 몮Hear, hear,몯 said Anthony Goldstein, and 
Hermione looked heartened 멪 몮well, I thought it 
would be good if we, well, took matters into our own 
hands.몯 

She paused, looked sideways at Harry, and went on, 
몮And by that I mean learning how to defend ourselves 
properly, not just theory but the real spells 멪 몯 

몮You want to pass your Defense Against the Dark Arts 
O.W.L. too though, I bet?몯 said Michael Corner. 

몮Of course I do,몯 said Hermione at once. 몮But I want 
more than that, I want to be properly trained in 
Defense because ... because ...몯 She took a great 
breath and finished, 몮Because Lord Voldemort몭s 
back.몯 

The reaction was immediate and predictable. Cho몭s 
friend shrieked and slopped butterbeer down herself, 
Terry Boot gave a kind of involuntary twitch, Padma 
Patil shuddered, and Neville gave an odd yelp that he 
managed to turn into a cough. All of them, however, 
looked fixedly, even eagerly, at Harry. 

몮Well ... that몭s the plan anyway,몯 said Hermione. 몮If 
you want to join us, we need to decide how we몭re 
going to 멪 몯 



| 434Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Where몭s the proof You-Know- Who몭s back?몯 said the 
blond Hufflepuff player in a rather aggressive voice. 

몮Well, Dumbledore believes it 멪 몯 Hermione began. 

몮You mean, Dumbledore believes him,몯 said the blond 
boy, nodding at Harry. 

몮Who are you?몯 said Ron rather rudely. 

몮Zacharias Smith,몯 said the boy, 몮and I think we몭ve 
got the right to know exactly what makes him say 
You-Know-Who몭s back.몯 

몮Look,몯 said Hermione, intervening swiftly, 몮that몭s 
really not what this meeting was supposed to be 
about 멪 몯 

몮It몭s okay, Hermione,몯 said Harry. 

It had just dawned upon him why there were so many 
people there. He felt that Hermione should have seen 
this coming. Some of these people 멪 maybe even 
most of them 멪 had turned up in the hope of hearing 
Harry몭s story firsthand. 

몮What makes me say You-Know-Who몭s back?몯 he 
asked, looking Zacharias straight in the face. 몮I saw 
him. But Dumbledore told the whole school what 
happened last year, and if you didn몭t believe him, you 
don몭t believe me, and I몭m not wasting an afternoon 
trying to convince anyone.몯 

The whole group seemed to have held its breath while 
Harry spoke. Harry had the impression that even the 
barman was listening in. He was wiping the same 
glass with the filthy rag; it was becoming steadily 
dirtier. 



| 435Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Zacharias said dismissively, 몮All Dumbledore told us 
last year was that Cedric Diggory got killed by You- 
Know-Who and that you brought Diggory몭s body back 
to Hogwarts. He didn몭t give us details, he didn몭t tell us 
exactly how Diggory got murdered, I think we몭d all 
like to know 멪 몯 

몮If you몭ve come to hear exactly what it looks like when 
Voldemort murders someone I can몭t help you,몯 Harry 
said. His temper, always so close to the surface these 
days, was rising again. He did not take his eyes from 
Zacharias Smith몭s aggressive face, determined not to 
look at Cho. 몮I don몭t want to talk about Cedric 
Diggory, all right? So if that몭s what you몭re here for, 
you might as well clear out.몯 

He cast an angry look in Hermione몭s direction. This 
was, he felt, all her fault; she had decided to display 
him like some sort of freak and of course they had all 
turned up to see just how wild his story was... But 
none of them left their seats, not even Zacharias 
Smith, though he continued to gaze intently at Harry. 

몮So,몯 said Hermione, her voice very high-pitched 
again. 몮So ... like I was saying ... if you want to learn 
some defense, then we need to work out how we몭re 
going to do it, how often we몭re going to meet, and 
where we몭re going to 멪 몯 

몮Is it true,몯 interrupted the girl with the long plait 
down her back, looking at Harry, 몮that you can 
produce a Patronus?몯 

There was a murmur of interest around the group at 
this. 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry slightly defensively. 

몮A corporeal Patronus?몯 

| 436Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The phrase stirred something in Harry몭s memory. 



몮Er 멪 you don몭t know Madam Bones, do you?몯 he 
asked. 

The girl smiled. 

몮She몭s my auntie,몯 she said. 몮I몭m Susan Bones. She 
told me about your hearing. So 멪 is it really true? 

You make a stag Patronus?몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Harry. 

몮Blimey, Harry!몯 said Lee, looking deeply impressed. 몮I 
never knew that!몯 

몮Mum told Ron not to spread it around,몯 said Fred, 
grinning at Harry. 몮She said you got enough attention 
as it was.몯 

몮She몭s not wrong,몯 mumbled Harry and a couple of 
people laughed. The veiled witch sitting alone shifted 
very slightly in her seat. 

몮And did you kill a basilisk with that sword in 
Dumbledore몭s office?몯 demanded Terry Boot. 몮That몭s 
what one of the portraits on the wall told me when I 
was in there last year...몯 

몮Er 멪 yeah, I did, yeah,몯 said Harry. 

Justin Finch-Fletchley whistled, the Creevey brothers 
exchanged awestruck looks, and Lavender Brown said 
몮wow몯 softly. Harry was feeling slightly hot around the 
collar now; he was determinedly looking anywhere 
but at Cho. 

몮And in our first year,몯 said Neville to the group at 
large, 몮he saved that Sorcerous Stone 멪 몯 

| 437Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Sorcerer몭s,몯 hissed Hermione. 

몮Yes, that, from You-Know-Who,몯 finished Neville. 

Hannah Abbott몭s eyes were as round as Galleons. 

몮And that몭s not to mention,몯 said Cho (Harry몭s eyes 
snapped onto her, she was looking at him, smiling; 
his stomach did another somersault), 몮all the tasks he 
had to get through in the Triwizard Tournament last 
year 멪 getting past dragons and merpeople and 
acromantulas and things...몯 

There was a murmur of impressed agreement around 
the table. 

Harry몭s insides were squirming. He was trying to 
arrange his face so that he did not look too pleased 
with himself. The fact that Cho had just praised him 
made it much, much harder for him to say the thing 
he had sworn to himself he would tell them. 

몮Look,몯 he said and everyone fell silent at once, 몮I ... I 
don몭t want to sound like I몭m trying to be modest or 
anything, but ... I had a lot of help with all that 
stuff...몯 

몮Not with the dragon, you didn몭t,몯 said Michael Corner 
at once. 몮That was a seriously cool bit of flying...몯 

몮Yeah, well 멪 몯 said Harry, feeling it would be churlish 
to disagree. 

몮And nobody helped you get rid of those dementors 
this summer,몯 said Susan Bones. 

몮No,몯 said Harry, 몮no, okay, I know I did bits of it 
without help, but the point I몭m trying to make is 멪 몯 



| 438Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Are you trying to weasel out of showing us any of 
this stuff?몯 said Zacharias Smith. 

몮Here몭s an idea,몯 said Ron loudly, before Harry could 
speak, 몮why don몭t you shut your mouth?몯 

Perhaps the word 몮weasel몯 had affected Ron 
particularly strongly; in any case, he was now looking 
at Zacharias as though he would like nothing better 
than to thump him. Zacharias flushed. 

몮Well, we몭ve all turned up to learn from him, and now 
he몭s telling us he can몭t really do any of it,몯 he said. 

몮That몭s not what he said,몯 snarled Fred Weasley. 

몮Would you like us to clean out your ears for you?몯 
inquired George, pulling a long and lethal-looking 
metal instrument from inside one of the Zonko몭s bags. 

몮Or any part of your body, really, we몭re not fussy 
where we stick this,몯 said Fred. 

몮Yes, well,몯 said Hermione hastily, 몮moving on ... the 
point is, are we agreed we want to take lessons from 
Harry?몯 

There was a murmur of general agreement. Zacharias 
folded his arms and said nothing, though perhaps 
this was because he was too busy keeping an eye on 
the instrument in George몭s hand. 

몮Right,몯 said Hermione, looking relieved that 
something had at last been settled. 몮Well, then, the 
next question is how often we do it. I really don몭t 
think there몭s any point in meeting less than once a 
week 멪 몯 



| 439Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Hang on,몯 said Angelina, 몮we need to make sure this 
doesn몭t clash with our Quidditch practice.몯 

몮No,몯 said Cho, 몮nor with ours.몯 

몮Nor ours,몯 added Zacharias Smith. 

몮I몭m sure we can find a night that suits everyone,몯 
said Hermione, slightly impatiently, 몮but you know, 
this is rather important, we몭re talking about learning 
to defend ourselves against V-Voldemort몭s Death 
Eaters 멪 몯 

몮Well said!몯 barked Ernie Macmillan, whom Harry had 
been expecting to speak long before this. 몮Personally I 
think this is really important, possibly more 
important than anything else we몭ll do this year, even 
with our O.W.L.s coming up!몯 

He looked around impressively, as though waiting for 
people to cry, 몮Surely not!몯 When nobody spoke, he 
went on, 몮I, personally, am at a loss to see why the 
Ministry has foisted such a useless teacher upon us 
at this critical period. Obviously they are in denial 
about the return of You-Know-Who, but to give us a 
teacher who is trying to actively prevent us from 
using defensive spells 멪 몯 

몮We think the reason Umbridge doesn몭t want us 
trained in Defense Against the Dark Arts,몯 said 
Hermione, 몮is that she몭s got some ... some mad idea 
that Dumbledore could use the students in the school 
as a kind of private army. She thinks he몭d mobilize us 
against the Ministry.몯 

Nearly everybody looked stunned at this news; 
everybody except Luna Lovegood, who piped up, 

몮Well, that makes sense. After all, Cornelius Fudge 
has got his own private army.몯 

| 440Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮What?몯 said Harry, completely thrown by this 
unexpected piece of information. 

몮Yes, he몭s got an army of heliopaths,몯 said Luna 
solemnly. 

몮No, he hasn몭t,몯 snapped Hermione. 

몮Yes, he has,몯 said Luna. 

몮What are heliopaths?몯 asked Neville, looking blank. 

몮They몭re spirits of fire,몯 said Luna, her protuberant 
eyes widening so that she looked madder than ever. 
몮Great tall flaming creatures that gallop across the 
ground burning everything in front of 멪 몯 

몮They don몭t exist, Neville,몯 said Hermione tartly. 

몮Oh yes they do!몯 said Luna angrily. 

몮I몭m sorry, but where몭s the proof of that?몯 snapped 
Hermione. 

몮There are plenty of eyewitness accounts, just 
because you몭re so narrow-minded you need to have 
everything shoved under your nose before you 멪 몯 

몮Hem, hem,몯 said Ginny in such a good imitation of 
Professor Umbridge that several people looked around 
in alarm and then laughed. 몮Weren몭t we trying to 
decide how often we몭re going to meet and get Defense 
lessons?몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Hermione at once, 몮yes, we were, you몭re 
right...몯 

몮Well, once a week sounds cool,몯 said Lee Jordan. 



| 441Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮As long as 멪 몯 began Angelina. 



몮Yes, yes, we know about the Quidditch,몯 said 
Hermione in a tense voice. 몮Well, the other thing to 
decide is where we몭re going to meet...몯 

This was rather more difficult; the whole group fell 
silent. 

몮Library?몯 suggested Katie Bell after a few moments. 

몮I can몭t see Madam Pince being too chuffed with us 
doing jinxes in the library,몯 said Harry. 

몮Maybe an unused classroom?몯 said Dean. 

몮Yeah,몯 said Ron, 몮McGonagall might let us have hers, 
she did when Harry was practicing for the 
Tri wizard...몯 

But Harry was pretty certain that McGonagall would 
not be so accommodating this time. For all that 
Hermione had said about study and homework 
groups being allowed, he had the distinct feeling this 
one might be considered a lot more rebellious. 

몮Right, well, we몭ll try to find somewhere,몯 said 
Hermione. 몮We몭ll send a message round to everybody 
when we몭ve got a time and a place for the first 
meeting.몯 

She rummaged in her bag and produced parchment 
and a quill, then hesitated, rather as though she was 
steeling herself to say something. 

몮I-I think everybody should write their name down, 
just so we know who was here. But I also think,몯 she 
took a deep breath, 몮that we all ought to agree not to 
shout about what we몭re doing. So if you sign, you몭re 

| 442Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




agreeing not to tell Umbridge 멪 or anybody else 
what we몭re up to.몯 



Fred reached out for the parchment and cheerfully 
put down his signature, but Harry noticed at once 
that several people looked less than happy at the 
prospect of putting their names on the list. 

몮Er ...몯 said Zacharias slowly, not taking the 
parchment that George was trying to pass him. 몮Well 
... I몭m sure Ernie will tell me when the meeting is.몯 

But Ernie was looking rather hesitant about signing 
too. Hermione raised her eyebrows at him. 

몮I 멪 well, we are prefects,몯 Ernie burst out. 몮And if 
this list was found ... well, I mean to say ... you said 
yourself, if Umbridge finds out ...몯 

몮You just said this group was the most important 
thing you몭d do this year,몯 Harry reminded him. 

몮I 멪 yes,몯 said Ernie, 몮yes, I do believe that, it몭s just 



몮Ernie, do you really think I몭d leave that list lying 
around?몯 said Hermione testily. 

몮No. No, of course not,몯 said Ernie, looking slightly 
less anxious. 몮I 멪 yes, of course I몭ll sign.몯 

Nobody raised objections after Ernie, though Harry 
saw Cho몭s friend give her a rather reproachful look 
before adding her name. When the last person 멪 
Zacharias 멪 had signed, Hermione took the 
parchment back and slipped it carefully into her bag. 
There was an odd feeling in the group now. It was as 
though they had just signed some kind of contract. 

| 443Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Well, time몭s ticking on,몯 said Fred briskly, getting to 
his feet. 몮George, Lee, and I have got items of a 
sensitive nature to purchase, we몭ll be seeing you all 
later.몯 

In twos and threes the rest of the group took their 
leave too. Cho made rather a business of fastening 
the catch on her bag before leaving, her long dark 
curtain of hair swinging forward to hide her face, but 
her friend stood beside her, arms folded, clicking her 
tongue, so that Cho had little choice but to leave with 
her. As her friend ushered her through the door, Cho 
looked back and waved at Harry. 

몮Well, I think that went quite well,몯 said Hermione 
happily, as she, Harry, and Ron walked out of the 
Hog몭s Head into the bright sunlight a few moments 
later, Harry and Ron still clutching their bottles of 
butterbeer. 

몮That Zacharias bloke몭s a wart,몯 said Ron, who was 
glowering after the figure of Smith just discernible in 
the distance. 

몮I don몭t like him much either,몯 admitted Hermione, 
몮but he overheard me talking to Ernie and Hannah at 
the Hufflepuff table and he seemed really interested 
in coming, so what could I say? But the more people 
the better really 멪 I mean, Michael Corner and his 
friends wouldn몭t have come if he hadn몭t been going 
out with Ginny 멪 몯 

Ron, who had been draining the last few drops from 
his butterbeer bottle, gagged and sprayed butterbeer 
down his front. 

몮He몭s WHAT?몯 said Ron, outraged, his ears now 
resembling curls of raw beef. 몮She몭s going out with 멪 



| 444Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




my sister몭s going 멪 what d몭you mean, Michael 
Corner?몯 

몮Well, that몭s why he and his friends came, I think 멪 
well, they몭re obviously interested in learning defense, 
but if Ginny hadn몭t told Michael what was going on 멪 



몮When did this 멪 when did she 멪 ?몯 

몮They met at the Yule Ball and they got together at 
the end of last year,몯 said Hermione composedly. They 
had turned into the High Street and she paused 
outside Scrivenshaft몭s Quill Shop, where there was a 
handsome display of pheasant-feather quills in the 
window. 몮Hmm ... I could do with a new quill.몯 

She turned into the shop. Harry and Ron followed 
her. 

몮Which one was Michael Corner?몯 Ron demanded 
furiously. 

몮The dark one,몯 said Hermione. 

몮I didn몭t like him,몯 said Ron at once. 

몮Big surprise,몯 said Hermione under her breath. 

몮But,몯 said Ron, following Hermione along a row of 
quills in copper pots, 몮I thought Ginny fancied Harry!몯 

Hermione looked at him rather pityingly and shook 
her head. 

몮Ginny used to fancy Harry, but she gave up on him 
months ago. Not that she doesn몭t like you, of course,몯 
she added kindly to Harry while she examined a long 
black-and-gold quill. 

| 445Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry, whose head was still full of Cho몭s parting wave, 
did not find this subject quite as interesting as Ron, 
who was positively quivering with indignation, but it 
did bring something home to him that until now he 
had not really registered. 

몮So that몭s why she talks now?몯 he asked Hermione. 
몮She never used to talk in front of me.몯 

몮Exactly,몯 said Hermione. 몮Yes, I think I몭ll have this 
one...몯 

She went up to the counter and handed over fifteen 
Sickles and two Knuts, Ron still breathing down her 
neck. 

몮Ron,몯 she said severely as she turned and trod on his 
feet, 몮this is exactly why Ginny hasn몭t told you she몭s 
seeing Michael, she knew you몭d take it badly. So don몭t 
harp on about it, for heaven몭s sake.몯 

몮What d몭you mean, who몭s taking anything badly? I몭m 
not going to harp on about anything ...몯 

Ron continued to chunter under his breath all the 
way down the street. Hermione rolled her eyes at 
Harry and then said in an undertone, while Ron was 
muttering imprecations about Michael Corner, 몮And 
talking about Michael and Ginny . . . what about Cho 
and you?몯 

몮What d몭you mean?몯 said Harry quickly. 

It was as though boiling water was rising rapidly 
inside him; a burning sensation that was causing his 
face to smart in the cold 멪 had he been that obvious? 

몮Well,몯 said Hermione, smiling slightly, 몮she just 
couldn몭t keep her eyes off you, could she?몯 

| 446Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry had never before appreciated just how beautiful 
the village of Hogsmeade was. 



| 447Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 





EDUCATIONAL DECREE NUMBER 
TWENTY-FOUR 

Harry felt happier for the rest of the weekend than he 
had done all term. He and Ron spent much of Sunday 
catching up with all their homework again, and 
although this could hardly be called fun, the last 
burst of autumn sunshine persisted, so rather than 
sitting hunched over tables in the common room, they 
took their work outside and lounged in the shade of a 
large beech tree on the edge of the lake. Hermione, 
who of course was up to date with all her work, 
brought more wool outside with her and bewitched 
her knitting needles so that they flashed and clicked 
in midair beside her, producing more hats and 
scarves. 

The knowledge that they were doing something to 
resist Umbridge and the Ministry, and that he was a 
key part of the rebellion, gave Harry a feeling of 
immense satisfaction. He kept reliving Saturday몭s 
meeting in his mind: all those people, coming to him 
to learn Defense Against the Dark Arts . . . and the 
looks on their faces as they had heard some of the 



| 448Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



things he had done . . . and Cho praising his 
performance in the Triwizard Tournament... The 
knowledge that all those people did not think him a 
lying weirdo, but someone to be admired, buoyed him 
up so much that he was still cheerful on Monday 
morning, despite the imminent prospect of all his 
least favorite classes. 

He and Ron headed downstairs from their dormitory 
together, discussing Angelina몭s idea that they were to 
work on a new move called the Sloth Grip Roll during 
that night몭s Quidditch practice, and not until they 
were halfway across the sunlit common room did they 
notice the addition to the room that had already 
attracted the attention of a small group of people. 

A large sign had been affixed to the Gryffindor notice 
board, so large that it covered everything else on there 
멪 the lists of secondhand spellbooks for sale, the 
regular reminders of school rules from Argus Filch, 
the Quidditch team training schedule, the offers to 
barter certain Chocolate Frog cards for others, the 
Weasleys몭 new advertisement for testers, the dates of 
the Hogsmeade weekends, and the lost-and-found 
notices. The new sign was printed in large black 
letters and there was a highly official-looking seal at 
the bottom beside a neat and curly signature. 



멪 BY ORDER OF 멪 

THE HIGH INQUISITOR OF HOGWARTS 

All Student Organizations, Societies, Teams, Groups, 
and Clubs are henceforth disbanded. 



| 449Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




An Organization, Society, Team, Group, or Club is 
hereby defined as a regular meeting of three or more 
students. 

Permission to re-form may be sought from the High 
Inquisitor (Professor Umbridge). 

No Student Organization, Society, Team, Group, or 
Club may exist without the knowledge and approval 
of the High Inquisitor. 

Any student found to have formed, or to belong to, an 
Organization, Society, Team, Group, or Club that has 
not been approved by the High Inquisitor will be 
expelled. 

The above is in accordance with 
Educational Decree Number Twenty-four. 

Signed: 

Dolores Jane Umbridge 
HIGH INQUISITOR 

Harry and Ron read the notice over the heads of some 
anxious-looking second years. 

몮Does this mean they몭re going to shut down the 
Gobstones Club?몯 one of them asked his friend. 

몮I reckon you몭ll be okay with Gobstones,몯 Ron said 
darkly, making the second year jump. 몮I don몭t think 
we몭re going to be as lucky, though, do you?몯 he asked 
Harry as the second years hurried away. 



| 450Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry was reading the notice through again. The 
happiness that had filled him since Saturday was 
gone. His insides were pulsing with rage. 

몮This isn몭t a coincidence,몯 he said, his hands forming 
fists. 몮She knows.몯 

몮She can몭t,몯 said Ron at once. 

몮There were people listening in that pub. And let몭s 
face it, we don몭t know how many of the people who 
turned up we can trust... Any of them could have run 
off and told Umbridge...몯 

And he had thought they believed him, thought they 
even admired him . . . 

몮Zacharias Smith!몯 said Ron at once, punching a fist 
into his hand. 몮Or 멪 I thought that Michael Corner 
had a really shifty look too 멪 몯 

몮I wonder if Hermione몭s seen this yet?몯 Harry said, 
looking around at the door to the girls몭 dormitories. 

몮Let몭s go and tell her,몯 said Ron. He bounded forward, 
pulled open the door, and set off up the spiral 
staircase. 

He was on the sixth stair when it happened. There 
was a loud, wailing, klaxonlike sound and the steps 
melted together to make a long, smooth stone slide. 
There was a brief moment when Ron tried to keep 
running, arms working madly like windmills, then he 
toppled over backward and shot down the newly 
created slide, coming to rest on his back at Harry몭s 
feet. 



| 451Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Er 멪 I don몭t think we몭re allowed in the girls몭 
dormitories,몯 said Harry, pulling Ron to his feet and 
trying not to laugh. 

Two fourth-year girls came zooming gleefully down 
the stone slide. 

몮Oooh, who tried to get upstairs?몯 they giggled 
happily, leaping to their feet and ogling Harry and 
Ron. 

몮Me,몯 said Ron, who was still rather disheveled. 몮I 
didn몭t realize that would happen. It몭s not fair!몯 he 
added to Harry, as the girls headed off for the portrait 
hole, still giggling madly. 몮Hermione몭s allowed in our 
dormitory, how come we몭re not allowed 멪 ?몯 

몮Well, it몭s an old-fashioned rule,몯 said Hermione, who 
had just slid neatly onto a rug in front of them and 
was now getting to her feet, 몮but it says in Hogwarts, 
A History that the founders thought boys were less 
trustworthy than girls. Anyway, why were you trying 
to get in there?몯 

몮To see you 멪 look at this!몯 said Ron, dragging her 
over to the notice board. 

Hermione몭s eyes slid rapidly down the notice. Her 
expression became stony. 

몮Someone must have blabbed to her!몯 Ron said 
angrily. 

몮They can몭t have done,몯 said Hermione in a low voice. 

몮You몭re so naive,몯 said Ron, 몮you think just because 
you몭re all honorable and trustworthy 멪 몯 



| 452Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮No, they can몭t have done because I put a jinx on that 
piece of parchment we all signed,몯 said Hermione 
grimly. 몮Believe me, if anyone몭s run off and told 
Umbridge, well know exactly who they are and they 
will really regret it.몯 

몮What몭ll happen to them?몯 said Ron eagerly. 

몮Well, put it this way,몯 said Hermione, 몮it몭ll make 
Eloise Midgen몭s acne look like a couple of cute 
freckles. Come on, let몭s get down to breakfast and see 
what the others think. . . I wonder whether this has 
been put up in all the Houses?몯 

It was immediately apparent on entering the Great 
Hall that Umbridge몭s sign had not only appeared in 
Gryffindor Tower. There was a peculiar intensity 
about the chatter and an extra measure of movement 
in the Hall as people scurried up and down their 
tables conferring on what they had read. Harry, Ron, 
and Hermione had barely taken their seats when 
Neville, Dean, Fred, George, and Ginny descended 
upon them. 

몮Did you see it?몯 

몮D몭you reckon she knows?몯 

몮What are we going to do?몯 

They were all looking at Harry. He glanced around to 
make sure there were no teachers near them. 

몮We몭re going to do it anyway, of course,몯 he said 
quietly. 

몮Knew you몭d say that,몯 said George, beaming and 
thumping Harry on the arm. 



| 453Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮The prefects as well?몯 said Fred, looking quizzically 
at Ron and Hermione. 

몮Of course,몯 said Hermione coolly. 

몮Here comes Ernie and Hannah Abbott,몯 said Ron, 
looking over his shoulder. 몮And those Ravenclaw 
blokes and Smith ... and no one looks very spotty.몯 

Hermione looked alarmed. 

몮Never mind spots, the idiots can몭t come over here 
now, it몭ll look really suspicious 멪 sit down!몯 she 
mouthed to Ernie and Hannah, gesturing frantically 
to them to rejoin the Hufflepuff table. 몮Later! We몭ll 멪 
talk 멪 to 멪 you 멪 lateri몯 

몮I몭ll tell Michael,몯 said Ginny impatiently, swinging 
herself off her bench. 몮The fool, honestly ...몯 

She hurried off toward the Ravenclaw table; Harry 
watched her go. Cho was sitting not far away, talking 
to the curly-haired friend she had brought along to 
the Hog몭s Head. Would Umbridge몭s notice scare her off 
meeting them again? 

But the full repercussions of the sign were not felt 
until they were leaving the Great Hall for History of 
Magic. 

몮Harry! Ron\몯 

It was Angelina and she was hurrying toward them 
looking perfectly desperate. 

몮It몭s okay,몯 said Harry quietly, when she was near 
enough to hear him. 몮We몭re still going to 멪 몯 



| 454Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮You realize she몭s including Quidditch in this?몯 
Angelina said over him. 몮We have to go and ask 
permission to re-form the Gryffindor team!몯 

몮What?몯 said Harry. 

몮No way,몯 said Ron, appalled. 

몮You read the sign, it mentions teams too! So listen, 
Harry ... I am saying this for the last time... Please, 
please don몭t lose your temper with Umbridge again or 
she might not let us play anymore!몯 

몮Okay, okay,몯 said Harry, for Angelina looked as 
though she was on the verge of tears. 몮Don몭t worry, I몭ll 
behave myself...몯 

몮Bet Umbridge is in History of Magic,몯 said Ron 
grimly, as they set off for Binns몭s lesson. 몮She hasn몭t 
inspected Binns yet... Bet you anything she몭s there...몯 

But he was wrong; the only teacher present when 
they entered was Professor Binns, floating an inch or 
so above his chair as usual and preparing to continue 
his monotonous drone on giant wars. Harry did not 
even attempt to follow what he was saying today; he 
doodled idly on his parchment ignoring Hermione몭s 
frequent glares and nudges, until a particularly 
painful poke in the ribs made him look up angrily. 

몮What?몯 

She pointed at the window. Harry looked around. 
Hedwig was perched on the narrow window ledge, 
gazing through the thick glass at him, a letter tied to 
her leg. Harry could not understand it; they had just 
had breakfast, why on earth hadn몭t she delivered the 
letter then, as usual? Many of his classmates were 
pointing out Hedwig to each other too. 

| 455Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Oh, I몭ve always loved that owl, she몭s so beautiful,몯 
Harry heard Lavender sigh to Parvati. 



He glanced around at Professor Binns who continued 
to read his notes, serenely unaware that the class몭s 
attention was even less focused upon him than usual. 
Harry slipped quietly off his chair, crouched down, 
and hurried along the row to the window, where he 
slid the catch and opened it very slowly. 

He had expected Hedwig to hold out her leg so that he 
could remove the letter and then fly off to the Owlery, 
but the moment the window was open wide enough 
she hopped inside, hooting dolefully. He closed the 
window with an anxious glance at Professor Binns, 
crouched low again, and sped back to his seat with 
Hedwig on his shoulder. He regained his seat, 
transferred Hedwig to his lap, and made to remove 
the letter tied to her leg. 

It was only then that he realized that Hedwig몭s 
feathers were oddly ruffled; some were bent the wrong 
way, and she was holding one of her wings at an odd 
angle. 

몮She몭s hurt!몯 Harry whispered, bending his head low 
over her. Hermione and Ron leaned in closer; 
Hermione even put down her quill. 몮Look 멪 there몭s 
something wrong with her wing 멪 몯 

Hedwig was quivering; when Harry made to touch the 
wing she gave a little jump, all her feathers on end as 
though she was inflating herself, and gazed at him 
reproachfully. 

몮Professor Binns,몯 said Harry loudly, and everyone in 
the class turned to look at him. 몮I몭m not feeling well.몯 



| 456Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Professor Binns raised his eyes from his notes, 
looking amazed, as always, to find the room in front 
of him full of people. 

몮Not feeling well?몯 he repeated hazily. 

몮Not at all well,몯 said Harry firmly, getting to his feet 
while concealing Hedwig behind his back. 몮So I think 
I몭ll need to go to the hospital wing.몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Professor Binns, clearly very much wrong- 
footed. 몮Yes ... yes, hospital wing ... well, off you go, 
then, Perkins ...몯 

Once outside the room Harry returned Hedwig to his 
shoulder and hurried off up the corridor, pausing to 
think only when he was out of sight of Binns몭s door. 
His first choice of somebody to cure Hedwig would 
have been Hagrid, of course, but as he had no idea 
where Hagrid was, his only remaining option was to 
find Professor Grubbly-Plank and hope she would 
help. 

He peered out of a window at the blustery, overcast 
grounds. There was no sign of her anywhere near 
Hagrid몭s cabin; if she was not teaching, she was 
probably in the staffroom. He set off downstairs, 
Hedwig hooting feebly as she swayed on his shoulder. 

Two stone gargoyles flanked the staffroom door. As 
Harry approached, one of them croaked, 몮You should 
be in class, sunny Jim.몯 

몮This is urgent,몯 said Harry curtly. 

몮Ooooh, urgent, is it?몯 said the other gargoyle in a 
high-pitched voice. 몮Well, that몭s put us in our place, 
hasn몭t it?몯 



| 457Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry knocked; he heard footsteps and then the door 
opened and he found himself face-to-face with 
Professor McGonagall. 

몮You haven몭t been given another detention!몯 she said 
at once, her square spectacles flashing alarmingly. 

몮No, Professor!몯 said Harry hastily. 

몮Well then, why are you out of class?몯 

몮It몭s urgent, apparently,몯 said the second gargoyle 
snidely. 

몮I몭m looking for Professor Grubbly-Plank,몯 Harry 
explained. 몮It몭s my owl, she몭s injured.몯 

몮Injured owl, did you say?몯 

Professor Grubbly-Plank appeared at Professor 
McGonagall몭s shoulder, smoking a pipe and holding a 
copy of the Daily Prophet 

몮Yes,몯 said Harry, lifting Hedwig carefully off his 
shoulder, 몮she turned up after the other post owls 
and her wing몭s all funny, look 멪 몯 

Professor Grubbly-Plank stuck her pipe firmly 
between her teeth and took Hedwig from Harry while 
Professor McGonagall watched. 

몮Hmm,몯 said Professor Grubbly-Plank, her pipe 
waggling slightly as she talked. 몮Looks like 
something몭s attacked her. Can몭t think what would 
have done it, though... Thestrals will sometimes go for 
birds, of course, but Hagrid몭s got the Hogwarts 
thestrals well trained not to touch owls ...몯 



| 458Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry neither knew nor cared what thestrals were, he 
just wanted to know that Hedwig was going to be all 
right. Professor McGonagall, however, looked sharply 
at Harry and said, 몮Do you know how far this owl몭s 
traveled, Potter?몯 

몮Er,몯 said Harry. 몮From London, I think.몯 

He met her eyes briefly and knew that she understood 
몮London몯 to mean 몮number twelve, Grimmauld Place몯 
by the way her eyebrows had joined in the middle. 

Professor Grubbly-Plank pulled a monocle out of the 
inside of her robes and screwed it into her eye to 
examine Hedwig몭s wing closely. 몮I should be able to 
sort this out if you leave her with me, Potter,몯 she 
said. 몮She shouldn몭t be flying long distances for a few 
days, in any case.몯 

몮Er 멪 right 멪 thanks,몯 said Harry, just as the bell 
rang for break. 

몮No problem,몯 said Professor Grubbly-Plank gruffly, 
turning back into the staffroom. 

몮Just a moment, Wilhelmina!몯 said Professor 
McGonagall. 몮Potter몭s letter!몯 

몮Oh yeah!몯 said Harry, who had momentarily 
forgotten the scroll tied to Hedwig몭s leg. Professor 
Grubbly-Plank handed it over and then disappeared 
into the staffroom carrying Hedwig, who was staring 
at Harry as though unable to believe he would give 
her away like this. Feeling slightly guilty, he turned to 
go, but Professor McGonagall called him back. 

몮Potter!몯 

몮Yes, Professor?몯 

| 459Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




She glanced up and down the corridor; there were 
students coming from both directions. 

몮Bear in mind,몯 she said quickly and quietly, her eyes 
on the scroll in his hand, 몮that channels of 
communication in and out of Hogwarts may be being 
watched, won몭t you?몯 

몮I 멪 몯 said Harry, but the flood of students rolling 
along the corridor was almost upon him. Professor 
McGonagall gave him a curt nod and retreated into 
the staffroom, leaving Harry to be swept out into the 
courtyard with the crowd. Here he spotted Ron and 
Hermione already standing in a sheltered corner, 
their cloak collars turned up against the wind. Harry 
slit open the scroll as he hurried toward them and 
found five words in Sirius몭s handwriting: 

Today, same time, same place. 

몮Is Hedwig okay?몯 asked Hermione anxiously, the 
moment he was within earshot. 

몮Where did you take her?몯 asked Ron. 

몮To Grubbly-Plank,몯 said Harry. 몮And I met 
McGonagall... Listen...몯 

And he told them what Professor McGonagall had 
said. To his surprise, neither of the others looked 
shocked; on the contrary, they exchanged significant 
looks. 

몮What?몯 said Harry, looking from Ron to Hermione 
and back again. 

몮Well, I was just saying to Ron ... what if someone 
had tried to intercept Hedwig? I mean, she몭s never 
been hurt on a flight before, has she?몯 

| 460Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Who몭s the letter from anyway?몯 asked Ron, taking 
the note from Harry. 

몮Snuffles,몯 said Harry quietly. 

몮 몬Same time, same place몭? Does he mean the fire in 
the common room?몯 

몮Obviously,몯 said Hermione, also reading the note. 

She looked uneasy. 몮I just hope nobody else has read 
this...몯 

몮But it was still sealed and everything,몯 said Harry, 
trying to convince himself as much as her. 몮And 
nobody would understand what it meant if they didn몭t 
know where we몭d spoken to him before, would they?몯 

몮I don몭t know,몯 said Hermione anxiously, hitching her 
bag back over her shoulder as the bell rang again. 몮It 
wouldn몭t be exactly difficult to reseal the scroll by 
magic... And if anyone몭s watching the Floo Network ... 
but I don몭t really see how we can warn him not to 
come without that being intercepted too!몯 

They trudged down the stone steps to the dungeons 
for Potions, all three of them lost in thought, but as 
they reached the bottom of the stairs they were 
recalled to themselves by the voice of Draco Malfoy, 
who was standing just outside Snape몭s classroom 
door, waving around an official-looking piece of 
parchment and talking much louder than was 
necessary so that they could hear every word. 

몮Yeah, Umbridge gave the Slytherin Quidditch team 
permission to continue playing straightaway, I went 
to ask her first thing this morning. Well, it was pretty 
much automatic, I mean, she knows my father really 
well, he몭s always popping in and out of the Ministry... 



| 461Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




It몭ll be interesting to see whether Gryffindor are 
allowed to keep playing, wont it?몯 

몮Don몭t rise,몯 Hermione whispered imploringly to Harry 
and Ron, who were both watching Malfoy, faces set 
and fists clenched. 몮It몭s what he wants...몯 

몮I mean,몯 said Malfoy, raising his voice a little more, 
his gray eyes glittering malevolently in Harry and 
Ron몭s direction, 몮if it몭s a question of influence with the 
Ministry, I don몭t think they몭ve got much chance... 

From what my father says, they몭ve been looking for an 
excuse to sack Arthur Weasley for years... And as for 
Potter ... My father says it몭s a matter of time before 
the Ministry has him carted off to St. Mungo몭s... 
apparently they몭ve got a special ward for people whose 
brains have been addled by magic...몯 

Malfoy made a grotesque face, his mouth sagging 
open and his eyes rolling. Crabbe and Goyle gave 
their usual grunts of laughter, Pansy Parkinson 
shrieked with glee. 

Something collided hard with Harry몭s shoulder, 
knocking him sideways. A split second later he 
realized that Neville had just charged past him, 
heading straight for Malfoy. 

몮Neville, no!몯 

Harry leapt forward and seized the back of Neville몭s 
robes; Neville struggled frantically, his fists flailing, 
trying desperately to get at Malfoy who looked, for a 
moment, extremely shocked. 

몮Help me!몯 Harry flung at Ron, managing to get an 
arm around Neville몭s neck and dragging him 
backward, away from the Slytherins. Crabbe and 
Goyle were now flexing their arms, closing in front of 

| 462Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Malfoy, ready for the fight. Ron hurried forward and 
seized Neville몭s arms; together, he and Harry 
succeeded in dragging Neville back into the Gryffindor 
line. Neville몭s face was scarlet; the pressure Harry was 
exerting on his throat rendered him quite 
incomprehensible, but odd words spluttered from his 
mouth. 

몮Not... funny ... don몭t ... Mungo몭s ... show ... him ...몯 

The dungeon door opened. Snape appeared there. His 
black eyes swept up the Gryffindor line to the point 
where Harry and Ron were wrestling with Neville. 

몮Fighting, Potter, Weasley, Longbottom?몯 Snape said 
in his cold, sneering voice. 몮Ten points from 
Gryffindor. Release Longbottom, Potter, or it will be 
detention. Inside, all of you.몯 

Harry let go of Neville, who stood panting and glaring 
at him. 

몮I had to stop you,몯 Harry gasped, picking up his bag. 
몮Crabbe and Goyle would몭ve torn you apart.몯 

Neville said nothing, he merely snatched up his own 
bag and stalked off into the dungeon. 

몮What in the name of Merlin,몯 said Ron slowly, as 
they followed Neville, 몮was that about?몯 

Harry did not answer. He knew exactly why the 
subject of people who were in St. Mungo몭s because of 
magical damage to their brains was highly distressing 
to Neville, but he had sworn to Dumbledore that he 
would not tell anyone Neville몭s secret. Even Neville did 
not know that Harry knew. 



| 463Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry, Ron, and Hermione took their usual seats at 
the back of the class and pulled out parchment, 
quills, and their copies of One Thousand Magical 
Herbs and Fungi. The class around them was 
whispering about what Neville had just done, but 
when Snape closed the dungeon door with an echoing 
bang everybody fell silent immediately. 

몮You will notice,몯 said Snape in his low, sneering 
voice, 몮that we have a guest with us today.몯 

He gestured toward the dim corner of the dungeon, 
and Harry saw Professor Umbridge sitting there, 
clipboard on her knee. He glanced sideways at Ron 
and Hermione, his eyebrows raised. Snape and 
Umbridge, the two teachers he hated most ... it was 
hard to decide which he wanted to triumph over the 
other. 

몮We are continuing with our Strengthening Solutions 
today, you will find your mixtures as you left them 
last lesson, if correctly made they should have 
matured well over the weekend 멪 instructions몯 멪 he 
waved his wand again 멪 몮on the board. Carry on.몯 

Professor Umbridge spent the first half hour of the 
lesson making notes in her corner. Harry was very 
interested in hearing her question Snape, so 
interested, that he was becoming careless with his 
potion again. 

몮Salamander blood, Harry!몯 Hermione moaned, 
grabbing his wrist to prevent him adding the wrong 
ingredient for the third time. 몮Not pomegranate juice!몯 

몮Right,몯 said Harry vaguely, putting down the bottle 
and continuing to watch the corner. Umbridge had 
just gotten to her feet. 몮Ha,몯 he said softly, as she 



| 464Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




strode between two lines of desks toward Snape, who 
was bending over Dean Thomas몭s cauldron. 

몮Well, the class seems fairly advanced for their level,몯 
she said briskly to Snape 몭s back. 몮Though I would 
question whether it is advisable to teach them a 
potion like the Strengthening Solution. I think the 
Ministry would prefer it if that was removed from the 
syllabus.몯 

Snape straightened up slowly and turned to look at 
her. 

몮Now ... how long have you been teaching at 
Hogwarts?몯 she asked, her quill poised over her 
clipboard. 

몮Fourteen years,몯 Snape replied. His expression was 
unfathomable. His eyes on Snape, Harry added a few 
drops to his potion; it hissed menacingly and turned 
from turquoise to orange. 

몮You applied first for the Defense Against the Dark 
Arts post, I believe?몯 Professor Umbridge asked 
Snape. 

몮Yes,몯 said Snape quietly. 

몮But you were unsuccessful?몯 

Snape 몭s lip curled. 

몮Obviously.몯 

Professor Umbridge scribbled on her clipboard. 

몮And you have applied regularly for the Defense 
Against the Dark Arts post since you first joined the 
school, I believe?몯 

| 465Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Yes,몯 said Snape quietly, barely moving his lips. He 
looked very angry. 

몮Do you have any idea why Dumbledore has 
consistently refused to appoint you?몯 asked 
Umbridge. 

몮I suggest you ask him,몯 said Snape jerkily. 

몮Oh I shall,몯 said Professor Umbridge with a sweet 
smile. 

몮I suppose this is relevant?몯 Snape asked, his black 
eyes narrowed. 

몮Oh yes,몯 said Professor Umbridge. 몮Yes, the Ministry 
wants a thorough understanding of teachers몭 멪 er 멪 
backgrounds...몯 

She turned away, walked over to Pansy Parkinson 
and began questioning her about the lessons. Snape 
looked around at Harry and their eyes met for a 
second. Harry hastily dropped his gaze to his potion, 
which was now congealing foully and giving off a 
strong smell of burned rubber. 

몮No marks again, then, Potter,몯 said Snape 
maliciously, emptying Harry몭s cauldron with a wave of 
his wand. 몮You will write me an essay on the correct 
composition of this potion, indicating how and why 
you went wrong, to be handed in next lesson, do you 
understand?몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Harry furiously. Snape had already given 
them homework, and he had Quidditch practice this 
evening; this would mean another couple of sleepless 
nights. It did not seem possible that he had awoken 
that morning feeling very happy. All he felt now was a 
fervent desire for this day to end as soon as possible. 
| 466Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Maybe I몭ll skive off Divination,몯 he said glumly as 
they stood again in the courtyard after lunch, the 
wind whipping at the hems of robes and brims of 
hats. 몮I몭ll pretend to be ill and do Snape몭s essay 
instead, then I won몭t have to stay up half the night...몯 

몮You can몭t skive off Divination,몯 said Hermione 
severely. 

몮Hark who몭s talking, you walked out of Divination, 
you hate Trelawney!몯 said Ron indignantly. 

몮I don몭t hate her,몯 said Hermione loftily. 몮I just think 
she몭s an absolutely appalling teacher and a real old 
fraud... But Harry몭s already missed History of Magic 
and I don몭t think he ought to miss anything else 
today!몯 

There was too much truth in this to ignore, so half an 
hour later Harry took his seat in the hot, over- 
perfumed atmosphere of the Divination classroom 
feeling angry at everybody. Professor Trelawney was 
handing out copies of The Dream Oracle yet again; he 
would surely be much better employed doing Snape몭s 
punishment essay than sitting here trying to find 
meaning in a lot of made-up dreams. 

It seemed, however, that he was not the only person 
in Divination who was in a temper. Professor 
Trelawney slammed a copy of the Oracle down on the 
table between Harry and Ron and swept away, her 
lips pursed; she threw the next copy of the Oracle at 
Seamus and Dean, narrowly avoiding Seamus몭s head, 
and thrust the final one into Neville몭s chest with such 
force that he slipped off his pouf. 

몮Well, carry on!몯 said Professor Trelawney loudly, her 
voice high pitched and somewhat hysterical. 몮You 



| 467Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




know what to do! Or am I such a substandard teacher 
that you have never learned how to open a book?몯 

The class stared perplexedly at her and then at each 
other. Harry, however, thought he knew what was the 
matter. As Professor Trelawney flounced back to the 
high-backed teacher몭s chair, her magnified eyes full of 
angry tears, he leaned his head closer to Ron몭s and 
muttered, 몮I think she몭s got the results of her 
inspection back.몯 

몮Professor?몯 said Parvati Patil in a hushed voice (she 
and Lavender had always rather admired Professor 
Trelawney). 몮Professor, is there anything 멪 er 멪 
wrong?몯 

몮Wrong!몯 cried Professor Trelawney in a voice 
throbbing with emotion. 몮Certainly not! I have been 
insulted, certainly... Insinuations have been made 
against me... Unfounded accusations levelled ... but 
no, there is nothing wrong, certainly not...몯 

She took a great shuddering breath and looked away 
from Parvati, angry tears spilling from under her 
glasses. 

몮I say nothing,몯 she choked, 몮of sixteen years몭 devoted 
service... It has passed, apparently, unnoticed... But I 
shall not be insulted, no, I shall not!몯 

몮But Professor, who몭s insulting you?몯 asked Parvati 
timidly. 

몮The establishment!몯 said Professor Trelawney in a 
deep, dramatic, wavering voice. 몮Yes, those with eyes 
too clouded by the Mundane to See as I See, to Know 
as I Know ... Of course, we Seers have always been 
feared, always persecuted... It is 멪 alas 멪 our fate...몯 



| 468Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




She gulped, dabbed at her wet cheeks with the end of 
her shawl, and then pulled a small, embroidered 
handkerchief from her sleeve, into which she blew her 
nose very hard with a sound like Peeves blowing a 
raspberry. Ron sniggered. Lavender shot him a 
disgusted look. 

몮Professor,몯 said Parvati, 몮do you mean ... is it 
something Professor Umbridge ... ?몯 

몮Do not speak to me about that woman!몯 cried 
Professor Trelawney, leaping to her feet, her beads 
rattling and her spectacles flashing. 몮Kindly continue 
with your work!몯 

And she spent the rest of the lesson striding among 
them, tears still leaking from behind her glasses, 
muttering what sounded like threats under her 
breath. 

"... may well choose to leave ... the indignity of it ... on 
probation ... we shall see ... how she dares ...몯 

몮You and Umbridge have got something in common,몯 
Harry told Hermione quietly when they met again in 
Defense Against the Dark Arts. 몮She obviously 
reckons Trelawney몭s an old fraud too... Looks like 
she몭s put her on probation.몯 

Umbridge entered the room as he spoke, wearing her 
black velvet bow and an expression of great 
smugness. 

몮Good afternoon, class.몯 

몮Good afternoon, Professor Umbridge,몯 they chanted 
drearily. 

몮Wands away, please ...몯 

| 469Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




But there was no answering flurry of movement this 
time; nobody had bothered to take out their wands. 

몮Please turn to page thirty-four of Defensive Magical 
Theory and read the third chapter, entitled The Case 
for Non-Offensive Responses to Magical Attack.몭 There 
will be 멪 몯 

몮 멪 no need to talk,몯 Harry, Ron, and Hermione said 
together under their breaths. 

몮No Quidditch practice,몯 said Angelina in hollow tones 
when Harry, Ron, and Hermione entered the common 
room that night after dinner. 

몮But I kept my temper!몯 said Harry, horrified. 몮I didn몭t 
say anything to her, Angelina, I swear, I 멪 몯 

몮I know, I know,몯 said Angelina miserably. 몮She just 
said she needed a bit of time to consider.몯 

몮Consider what?몯 said Ron angrily. 몮She몭s given the 
Slytherins permission, why not us?몯 

But Harry could imagine how much Umbridge was 
enjoying holding the threat of no Gryffindor Quidditch 
team over their heads and could easily understand 
why she would not want to relinquish that weapon 
over them too soon. 

몮Well,몯 said Hermione, 몮look on the bright side 멪 at 
least now you몭ll have time to do Snape몭s essay!몯 

몮That몭s a bright side, is it?몯 snapped Harry, while Ron 
stared incredulously at Hermione. 몮No Quidditch 
practice and extra Potions?몯 

Harry slumped down into a chair, dragged his Potions 
essay reluctantly from his bag, and set to work. 

| 470Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




It was very hard to concentrate; even though he knew 
that Sirius was not due in the fire until much later he 
could not help glancing into the flames every few 
minutes just in case. There was also an incredible 
amount of noise in the room: Fred and George 
appeared finally to have perfected one type of Skiving 
Snackbox, which they were taking turns to 
demonstrate to a cheering and whooping crowd. 

First, Fred would take a bite out of the orange end of 
a chew, at which he would vomit spectacularly into a 
bucket they had placed in front of them. Then he 
would force down the purple end of the chew, at 
which the vomiting would immediately cease. Lee 
Jordan, who was assisting the demonstration, was 
lazily vanishing the vomit at regular intervals with the 
same Vanishing Spell Snape kept using on Harry몭s 
potions. 

What with the regular sounds of retching, cheering, 
and Fred and George taking advance orders from the 
crowd, Harry was finding it exceptionally difficult to 
focus on the correct method for Strengthening 
Solutions. Hermione was not helping matters; the 
cheers and sound of vomit hitting the bottom of Fred 
and George몭s bucket were punctuated by loud and 
disapproving sniffs that Harry found, if anything, 
more distracting. 

몮Just go and stop them, then!몯 he said irritably, after 
crossing out the wrong weight of powdered griffin 
claw for the fourth time. 

몮I can몭t, they몭re not technically doing anything wrong,몯 
said Hermione through gritted teeth. 몮They몭re quite 
within their rights to eat the foul things themselves, 
and I can몭t find a rule that says the other idiots aren몭t 
entitled to buy them, not unless they몭re proven to be 



| 471Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




dangerous in some way, and it doesn몭t look as though 
they are...몯 

She, Harry, and Ron watched George projectile-vomit 
into the bucket, gulp down the rest of the chew, and 
straighten up, beaming with his arms wide to 
protracted applause. 

몮You know, I don몭t get why Fred and George only got 
three O.W.L.s each,몯 said Harry, watching as Fred, 
George, and Lee collected gold from the eager crowd. 
몮They really know their stuff...몯 

몮Oh, they only know flashy stuff that몭s no real use to 
anyone,몯 said Hermione disparagingly. 

몮No real use?몯 said Ron in a strained voice. 

몮Hermione, they몭ve got about twenty-six Galleons 
already...몯 

It was a long while before the crowd around the 
Weasleys dispersed, and then Fred, Lee, and George 
sat up counting their takings even longer, so that it 
was well past midnight when Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione finally had the common room to themselves 
again. At long last, Fred closed the doorway to the 
boys몭 dormitories behind him, rattling his box of 
Galleons ostentatiously so that Hermione scowled. 
Harry, who was making very little progress with his 
Potions essay, decided to give it up for the night. As 
he put his books away, Ron, who was dozing lightly in 
an armchair, gave a muffled grunt, awoke, looked 
blearily into the fire and said, 몮Sirius!몯 

Harry whipped around; Sirius몭s untidy dark head was 
sitting in the fire again. 

몮Hi,몯 he said, grinning. 



| 472Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Hi,몯 chorused Harry, Ron, and Hermione, all three 
kneeling down upon the hearthrug. Crookshanks 
purred loudly and approached the fire, trying, despite 
the heat, to put his face close to Sirius몭s. 

몮How몭re things?몯 said Sirius. 

몮Not that good,몯 said Harry, as Hermione pulled 
Crookshanks back to stop him singeing his whiskers. 
몮The Ministry몭s forced through another decree, which 
means we몭re not allowed to have Quidditch teams 멪 몯 

몮 멪 or secret Defense Against the Dark Arts groups?몯 
said Sirius. 

There was a short pause. 

몮How did you know about that?몯 Harry demanded. 

몮You want to choose your meeting places more 
carefully,몯 said Sirius, grinning still more broadly. 
몮The Hog몭s Head, I ask you ...몯 

몮Well, it was better than the Three Broomsticks!몯 said 
Hermione defensively. 몮That몭s always packed with 
people 멪 몯 

몮 멪 which means you몭d have been harder to overhear,몯 
said Sirius. 몮You몭ve got a lot to learn, Hermione.몯 

몮Who overheard us?몯 Harry demanded. 

몮Mundungus, of course,몯 said Sirius, and when they 
all looked puzzled he laughed. 몮He was the witch 
under the veil.몯 

몮That was Mundungus?몯 Harry said, stunned. 몮What 
was he doing in the Hog몭s Head?몯 



| 473Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮What do you think he was doing?몯 said Sirius 
impatiently. 몮Keeping an eye on you, of course.몯 

몮I몭m still being followed?몯 asked Harry angrily. 

몮Yeah, you are,몯 said Sirius, 몮and just as well, isn몭t it, 
if the first thing you몭re going to do on your weekend 
off is organize an illegal defense group.몯 

But he looked neither angry nor worried; on the 
contrary, he was looking at Harry with distinct pride. 

몮Why was Dung hiding from us?몯 asked Ron, 
sounding disappointed. 몮We몭d몭ve liked to몭ve seen him.몯 

몮He was banned from the Hog몭s Head twenty years 
ago,몯 said Sirius, 몮and that barman몭s got a long 
memory. We lost Moody몭s spare Invisibility Cloak 
when Sturgis was arrested, so Dung몭s been dressing 
as a witch a lot lately... Anyway ... First of all, Ron 멪 
I몭ve sworn to pass on a message from your mother.몯 

몮Oh yeah?몯 said Ron, sounding apprehensive. 

몮She says on no account whatsoever are you to take 
part in an illegal secret Defense Against the Dark Arts 
group. She says you몭ll be expelled for sure and your 
future will be ruined. She says there will be plenty of 
time to learn how to defend yourself later and that 
you are too young to be worrying about that right 
now. She also몯 멪 Sirius몭s eyes turned to the other two 
멪 몮advises Harry and Hermione not to proceed with 
the group, though she accepts that she has no 
authority over either of them and simply begs them to 
remember that she has their best interests at heart. 
She would have written all this to you, but if the owl 
had been intercepted you몭d all have been in real 
trouble, and she can몭t say it for herself because she몭s 
on duty tonight.몯 

| 474Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮On duty doing what?몯 said Ron quickly. 

몮Never you mind, just stuff for the Order,몯 said Sirius. 
몮So it몭s fallen to me to be the messenger and make 
sure you tell her I passed it all on, because I don몭t 
think she trusts me to.몯 

There was another pause in which Crookshanks, 
mewing, attempted to paw Sirius몭s head, and Ron 
fiddled with a hole in the hearthrug. 

몮So you want me to say I몭m not going to take part in 
the defense group?몯 he muttered finally. 

몮Me? Certainly not!몯 said Sirius, looking surprised. 몮I 
think it몭s an excellent idea!몯 

몮You do?몯 said Harry, his heart lifting. 

몮Of course I do!몯 said Sirius. 몮D몭you think your father 
and I would몭ve lain down and taken orders from an 
old hag like Umbridge?몯 

몮But 멪 last term all you did was tell me to be careful 
and not take risks 멪 몯 

몮Last year all the evidence was that someone inside 
Hogwarts was trying to kill you, Harry!몯 said Sirius 
impatiently. 몮This year we know that there몭s someone 
outside Hogwarts who몭d like to kill us all, so I think 
learning to defend yourselves properly is a very good 
idea!몯 

몮And if we do get expelled?몯 Hermione asked, a 
quizzical look on her face. 

몮Hermione, this whole thing was your idea!몯 said 
Harry, staring at her. 



| 475Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I know it was... I just wondered what Sirius 
thought,몯 she said, shrugging. 

몮Well, better expelled and able to defend yourselves 
than sitting safely in school without a clue,몯 said 
Sirius. 

몮Hear, hear,몯 said Harry and Ron enthusiastically. 

몮So,몯 said Sirius, 몮how are you organizing this group? 
Where are you meeting?몯 

몮Well, that몭s a bit of a problem now,몯 said Harry. 
몮Dunno where we몭re going to be able to go...몯 

몮How about the Shrieking Shack?몯 suggested Sirius. 

몮Hey, that몭s an idea!몯 said Ron excitedly, but 
Hermione made a skeptical noise and all three of 
them looked at her, Sirius몭s head turning in the 
flames. 

몮Well, Sirius, it몭s just that there were only four of you 
meeting in the Shrieking Shack when you were at 
school,몯 said Hermione, 몮and all of you could 
transform into animals and I suppose you could all 
have squeezed under a single Invisibility Cloak if 
you몭d wanted to. But there are twenty-eight of us and 
none of us is an Animagus, so we wouldn몭t need so 
much an Invisibility Cloak as an Invisibility Marquee 



몮Fair point,몯 said Sirius, looking slightly crestfallen. 
몮Well, I몭m sure you몭ll come up with somewhere... 
There used to be a pretty roomy secret passageway 
behind that big mirror on the fourth floor, you might 
have enough space to practice jinxes in there 멪 몯 



| 476Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Fred and George told me it몭s blocked,몯 said Harry, 
shaking his head. 몮Caved in or something.몯 

몮Oh ...몯 said Sirius, frowning. 몮Well, 111 have a think 
and get back to 멪 몯 

He broke off. His face was suddenly tense, alarmed. 
He turned sideways, apparently looking into the solid 
brick wall of the fireplace. 

몮Sirius?몯 said Harry anxiously. 

But he had vanished. Harry gaped at the flames for a 
moment, then turned to look at Ron and Hermione. 

몮Why did he 멪 ?몯 

Hermione gave a horrified gasp and leapt to her feet, 
still staring at the fire. 

A hand had appeared amongst the flames, groping as 
though to catch hold of something; a stubby, short- 
fingered hand covered in ugly old-fashioned rings... 

The three of them ran for it; at the door of the boys몭 
dormitory Harry looked back. Umbridge몭s hand was 
still making snatching movements amongst the 
flames, as though she knew exactly where Sirius몭s 
hair had been moments before and was determined to 
seize it. 



| 477Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






DUMBLEDORE몭S ARMY 

몮Umbridge has been reading your mail, Harry. There몭s 
no other explanation.몯 

몮You think Umbridge attacked Hedwig?몯 he said, 
outraged. 

몮I몭m almost certain of it,몯 said Hermione grimly. 

몮Watch your frog, it몭s escaping.몯 

Harry pointed his wand at the bullfrog that had been 
hopping hopefully toward the other side of the table 
멪 몮Acciol 몯 멪 and it zoomed gloomily back into his 
hand. 

Charms was always one of the best lessons in which 
to enjoy a private chat: There was generally so much 
movement and activity that the danger of being 
overheard was very slight. Today, with the room full of 
croaking bullfrogs and cawing ravens, and with a 
heavy downpour of rain clattering and pounding 
against the classroom windows, Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione 몭s whispered discussion about how 
| 478Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



Umbridge had nearly caught Sirius went quite 
unnoticed. 

몮I몭ve been suspecting this ever since Filch accused 
you of ordering Dungbombs, because it seemed such 
a stupid lie,몯 Hermione whispered. 몮I mean, once your 
letter had been read, it would have been quite clear 
you weren몭t ordering them, so you wouldn몭t have been 
in trouble at all 멪 it몭s a bit of a feeble joke, isn몭t it? 
But then I thought, what if somebody just wanted an 
excuse to read your mail? Well then, it would be a 
perfect way for Umbridge to manage it 멪 tip off Filch, 
let him do the dirty work and confiscate the letter, 
then either find a way of stealing it from him or else 
demand to see it 멪 I don몭t think Filch would object, 
when몭s he ever stuck up for a student몭s rights? Harry, 
you몭re squashing your frog.몯 

Harry looked down; he was indeed squeezing his 
bullfrog so tightly its eyes were popping; he replaced 
it hastily upon the desk. 

몮It was a very, very close call last night,몯 said 
Hermione. 몮I just wonder if Umbridge knows how 
close it was. Silenciol몯 

The bullfrog on which she was practicing her 
Silencing Charm was struck dumb mid-croak and 
glared at her reproachfully. 

몮If she몭d caught Snuffles ...몯 

Harry finished the sentence for her. 

몮He몭d probably be back in Azkaban this morning.몯 He 
waved his wand without really concentrating; his 
bullfrog swelled like a green balloon and emitted a 
high-pitched whistle. 



| 479Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Silenciol몯 said Hermione hastily, pointing her wand 
at Harry몭s frog, which deflated silently before them. 
몮Well, he mustn몭t do it again, that몭s all. I just don몭t 
know how we몭re going to let him know. We can몭t send 
him an owl.몯 

몮I don몭t reckon he몭ll risk it again,몯 said Ron. 몮He몭s not 
stupid, he knows she nearly got him. Silenciol몯 

The large and ugly raven in front of him let out a 
derisive caw. 

몮 Silenciol SILENCIO몯 

The raven cawed more loudly. 

몮It몭s the way you몭re moving your wand,몯 said 
Hermione, watching Ron critically. 몮You don몭t want to 
wave it, it몭s more a sharp jab.몯 

몮Ravens are harder than frogs,몯 said Ron testily. 

몮Fine, let몭s swap,몯 said Hermione, seizing Ron몭s raven 
and replacing it with her own fat bullfrog. 몮Silencio\몯 
The raven continued to open and close its sharp beak, 
but no sound came out. 

몮Very good, Miss Granger!몯 said Professor Flitwick몭s 
squeaky little voice and Harry, Ron, and Hermione all 
jumped. 몮Now, let me see you try, Mr. Weasley!몯 

몮Wha 멪 ? Oh 멪 oh, right,몯 said Ron, very flustered. 
몮Er 멪 Silenciol몯 

He jabbed at the bullfrog so hard that he poked it in 
the eye; the frog gave a deafening croak and leapt off 
the desk. 



| 480Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




It came as no surprise to any of them that Harry and 
Ron were given additional practice of the Silencing 
Charm for homework. 

They were allowed to remain inside over break due to 
the downpour outside. They found seats in a noisy 
and overcrowded classroom on the first floor in which 
Peeves was floating dreamily up near the chandelier, 
occasionally blowing an ink pellet at the top of 
somebody몭s head. They had barely sat down when 
Angelina came struggling toward them through the 
groups of gossiping students. 

몮I몭ve got permission!몯 she said. 몮To re-form the 
Quidditch team!몯 

몮Excellent.몯 said Ron and Harry together. 

몮Yeah,몯 said Angelina, beaming. 몮I went to 
McGonagall and I think she might have appealed to 
Dumbledore 멪 anyway, Umbridge had to give in. Ha! 
So I want you down at the pitch at seven o몭clock 
tonight, all right, because we몭ve got to make up time, 
you realize we몭re only three weeks away from our first 
match?몯 

She squeezed away from them, narrowly dodged an 
ink pellet from Peeves, which hit a nearby first year 
instead, and vanished from sight. 

Ron몭s smile slipped slightly as he looked out of the 
window, which was now opaque with hammering 
rain. 

몮Hope this clears up ... What몭s up with you, 
Hermione?몯 



| 481Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




She too was gazing at the window, but not as though 
she really saw it. Her eyes were unfocused and there 
was a frown on her face. 

몮Just thinking ...몯 she said, still frowning at the rain- 
washed window. 

몮About Siri . . . Snuffles?몯 said Harry. 

몮No ... not exactly ...몯 said Hermione slowly. 몮More ... 
wondering ... I suppose we몭re doing the right thing ... 

I think ... aren몭t we? 

Harry and Ron looked at each other. 

몮Well, that clears that up,몯 said Ron. 몮It would몭ve been 
really annoying if you hadn몭t explained yourself 
properly.몯 

Hermione looked at him as though she had only just 
realized he was there. 

몮I was just wondering,몯 she said, her voice stronger 
now, 몮whether we몭re doing the right thing, starting 
this Defense Against the Dark Arts group.몯 

몮What!몯 said Harry and Ron together. 

몮Hermione, it was your idea in the first place!몯 said 
Ron indignantly. 

몮I know,몯 said Hermione, twisting her fingers together. 
몮But after talking to Snuffles ...몯 

몮But he몭s all for it!몯 said Harry. 

몮Yes,몯 said Hermione, staring at the window again. 
몮Yes, that몭s what made me think maybe it wasn몭t a 
good idea after all...몯 

| 482Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Peeves floated over them on his stomach, peashooter 
at the ready; automatically all three of them lifted 
their bags to cover their heads until he had passed. 

몮Let몭s get this straight,몯 said Harry angrily, as they 
put their bags back on the floor, 몮Sirius agrees with 
us, so you don몭t think we should do it anymore?몯 

Hermione looked tense and rather miserable. Now 
staring at her own hands she said, 몮Do you honestly 
trust his judgment?몯 

몮Yes, I do!몯 said Harry at once. 몮He몭s always given us 
great advice!몯 

An ink pellet whizzed past them, striking Katie Bell 
squarely in the ear. Hermione watched Katie leap to 
her feet and start throwing things at Peeves; it was a 
few moments before Hermione spoke again and it 
sounded as though she was choosing her words very 
carefully. 

몮You don몭t think he has become ... sort of ... reckless 
... since he몭s been cooped up in Grimmauld Place? 

You don몭t think he몭s ... kind of ... living through us?몯 

몮What d몭you mean, 몬living through us몭?몯 Harry 
retorted. 

몮I mean ... well, I think he몭d love to be forming secret 
defense societies right under the nose of someone 
from the Ministry... I think he몭s really frustrated at 
how little he can do where he is ... so I think he몭s 
keen to kind of ... egg us on.몯 

Ron looked utterly perplexed. 

몮Sirius is right,몯 he said, 몮you do sound just like my 
mother.몯 

| 483Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione bit her lip and did not answer. The bell 
rang just as Peeves swooped down upon Katie and 
emptied an entire ink bottle over her head. 

The weather did not improve as the day wore on, so 
that at seven o몭clock that evening, when Harry and 
Ron went down to the Quidditch pitch for practice, 
they were soaked through within minutes, their feet 
slipping and sliding on the sodden grass. The sky was 
a deep, thundery gray and it was a relief to gain the 
warmth and light of the changing rooms, even if they 
knew the respite was only temporary. They found 
Fred and George debating whether to use one of their 
own Skiving Snackboxes to get out of flying. 

몮 멪 but I bet she몭d know what we몭d done,몯 Fred said 
out of the corner of his mouth. 몮If only I hadn몭t offered 
to sell her some Puking Pastilles yesterday 멪 몯 

몮We could try the Fever Fudge,몯 George muttered, 몮no 
one몭s seen that yet 멪 몯 

몮Does it work?몯 inquired Ron hopefully, as the 
hammering of rain on the roof intensified and wind 
howled around the building. 

몮Well, yeah,몯 said Fred, 몮your temperature몭ll go right 
up 멪 몯 



몮 멪 but you get these massive pus-filled boils too,몯 
said George, 몮and we haven몭t worked out how to get 
rid of them yet.몯 

몮I can몭t see any boils,몯 said Ron, staring at the twins. 

몮No, well, you wouldn몭t,몯 said Fred darkly, 몮they몭re not 
in a place we generally display to the public 멪 몯 



| 484Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮 멪 but they make sitting on a broom a right pain in 
the 멪 몯 



몮All right, everyone, listen up,몯 said Angelina loudly, 
emerging from the Captain몭s office. 몮I know it몭s not 
ideal weather, but there몭s a good chance we몭ll be 
playing Slytherin in conditions like this so it몭s a good 
idea to work out how we몭re going to cope with them. 
Harry, didn몭t you do something to your glasses to stop 
the rain fogging them up when we played Hufflepuff 
in that storm?몯 

몮Hermione did it,몯 said Harry. He pulled out his wand, 
tapped his glasses and said, 몮Imperviusl몯 

몮I think we all ought to try that,몯 said Angelina. 몮If we 
could just keep the rain off our faces it would really 
help visibility 멪 all together, come on 멪 Imperviusl 
Okay. Let몭s go.몯 

They all stowed their wands back in the inside 
pockets of their robes, shouldered their brooms, and 
followed Angelina out of the changing rooms. 

They squelched through the deepening mud to the 
middle of the pitch; visibility was still very poor even 
with the Impervius Charm; light was fading fast and 
curtains of rain were sweeping the grounds. 

몮All right, on my whistle,몯 shouted Angelina. 

Harry kicked off from the ground, spraying mud in all 
directions, and shot upward, the wind pulling him 
slightly off course. He had no idea how he was going 
to see the Snitch in this weather; he was having 
enough difficulty seeing the one Bludger with which 
they were practicing; a minute into the practice it 
almost unseated him and he had to use the Sloth 
Grip Roll to avoid it. Unfortunately Angelina did not 
| 485Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




see this; in fact, she did not appear to be able to see 
anything; none of them had a clue what the others 
were doing. The wind was picking up; even at a 
distance Harry could hear the swishing, pounding 
sounds of the rain pummeling the surface of the lake. 

Angelina kept them at it for nearly an hour before 
conceding defeat. She led her sodden and disgruntled 
team back into the changing rooms, insisting that the 
practice had not been a waste of time, though without 
any real conviction in her voice. Fred and George were 
looking particularly annoyed; both were bandy-legged 
and winced with every movement. Harry could hear 
them complaining in low voices as he toweled his hair 
dry. 

몮I think a few of mine have ruptured,몯 said Fred in a 
hollow voice. 

몮Mine haven몭t,몯 said George, wincing. 몮They몭re 
throbbing like mad ... feel bigger if anything ...몯 

몮OUCH!몯 said Harry. 

He pressed the towel to his face, his eyes screwed 
tight with pain. The scar on his forehead had seared 
again, more painfully than in months. 

몮What몭s up?몯 said several voices. 

Harry emerged from behind his towel; the changing 
room was blurred because he was not wearing his 
glasses; but he could still tell that everyone몭s face was 
turned toward him. 

몮Nothing,몯 he muttered, 몮I 멪 poked myself in the eye, 
that몭s all...몯 



| 486Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




But he gave Ron a significant look and the two of 
them hung back as the rest of the team filed back 
outside, muffled in their cloaks, their hats pulled low 
over their ears. 

몮What happened?몯 said Ron, the moment that Alicia 
had disappeared through the door. 몮Was it your 
scar?몯 

Harry nodded. 

몮But ...몯 Looking scared, Ron strode across to the 
window and stared out into the rain, 몮He 멪 he can몭t 
be near us now, can he?몯 

몮No,몯 Harry muttered, sinking onto a bench and 
rubbing his forehead. 몮He몭s probably miles away. It 
hurt because ... he몭s ... angry.몯 

Harry had not meant to say that at all, and heard the 
words as though a stranger had spoken them 멪 yet 
he knew at once that they were true. He did not know 
how he knew it, but he did; Voldemort, wherever he 
was, whatever he was doing, was in a towering 
temper. 

몮Did you see him?몯 said Ron, looking horrified. 몮Did 
you . . . get a vision, or something?몯 

Harry sat quite still, staring at his feet, allowing his 
mind and his memory to relax in the aftermath of the 
pain... 

A confused tangle of shapes, a howling rush of voices 



몮He wants something done, and it몭s not happening 
fast enough,몯 he said. 



| 487Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Again, he felt surprised to hear the words coming out 
of his mouth, and yet quite certain that they were 
true. 

몮But ... how do you know?몯 said Ron. 

Harry shook his head and covered his eyes with his 
hands, pressing down upon them with his palms. 
Little stars erupted in them. He felt Ron sit down on 
the bench beside him and knew Ron was staring at 
him. 

몮Is this what it was about last time?몯 said Ron in a 
hushed voice. 몮When your scar hurt in Umbridge몭s 
office? You-Know-Who was angry?몯 

Harry shook his head. 

몮What is it, then?몯 

Harry was thinking himself back. He had been 
looking into Umbridge몭s face... His scar had hurt ... 
and he had had that odd feeling in his stomach ... a 
strange, leaping feeling ... a happy feeling... But, of 
course, he had not recognized it for what it was, as he 
had been feeling so miserable himself. . . 

몮Last time, it was because he was pleased,몯 he said. 
몮Really pleased. 

몮He thought ... something good was going to happen. 
And the night before we came back to Hogwarts ...몯 

He thought back to the moment when his scar had 
hurt so badly in his and Ron몭s bedroom in 
Grimmauld Place. 몮He was furious...몯 

He looked around at Ron, who was gaping at him. 



| 488Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮You could take over from Trelawney, mate,몯 he said 
in an awed voice. 

몮I몭m not making prophecies,몯 said Harry. 

몮No, you know what you몭re doing?몯 Ron said, 
sounding both scared and impressed. 몮Harry, you몭re 
reading You-Know-Who몭s mind...몯 

몮No,몯 said Harry, shaking his head. 몮It몭s more like ... 
his mood, I suppose. I몭m just getting flashes of what 
mood he몭s in... Dumbledore said something like this 
was happening last year. . . He said that when 
Voldemort was near me, or when he was feeling 
hatred, I could tell. Well, now I몭m feeling it when he몭s 
pleased too...몯 

There was a pause. The wind and rain lashed at the 
building. 

몮You몭ve got to tell someone,몯 said Ron. 

몮I told Sirius last time.몯 

몮Well, tell him about this time!몯 

몮Can몭t, can I?몯 said Harry grimly. 몮Umbridge is 
watching the owls and the fires, remember?몯 

몮Well then, Dumbledore 멪 몯 

몮I몭ve just told you, he already knows,몯 said Harry 
shortly, getting to his feet, taking his cloak off his peg, 
and swinging it around himself. 몮There몭s no point 
telling him again.몯 

Ron did up the fastening of his own cloak, watching 
Harry thoughtfully. 



| 489Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Dumbledore몭d want to know,몯 he said. 



Harry shrugged. 

몮C몭mon ... we몭ve still got Silencing Charms to practice 



They hurried back through the dark grounds, sliding 
and stumbling up the muddy lawns, not talking. 

Harry was thinking hard. What was it that Voldemort 
wanted done that was not happening quickly enough? 

몮He몭s got other plans ... plans he can put into operation 
very quietly indeed . . . stuff he can only get by stealth 
... like a weapon. Something he didn몭t have last time.몯 

He had not thought about those words in weeks; he 
had been too absorbed in what was going on at 
Hogwarts, too busy dwelling on the ongoing battles 
with Umbridge, the injustice of all the Ministry 
interference... But now they came back to him and 
made him wonder... Voldemort몭s anger would make 
sense if he was no nearer laying hands on the 
weapon, whatever it was... Had the Order thwarted 
him, stopped him from seizing it? Where was it kept? 
Who had it now? 

몮Mimbulus mimbletonia,몯 said Ron몭s voice and Harry 
came back to his senses just in time to clamber 
through the portrait hole into the common room. 

It appeared that Hermione had gone to bed early, 
leaving Crookshanks curled in a nearby chair and an 
assortment of knobbly, knitted elf hats lying on a 
table by the fire. Harry was rather grateful that she 
was not around because he did not much want to 
discuss his scar hurting and have her urge him to go 
to Dumbledore too. Ron kept throwing him anxious 
glances, but Harry pulled out his Potions book and 
| 490Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




set to work to finish his essay, though he was only 
pretending to concentrate and, by the time that Ron 
said he was going to bed too, had written hardly 
anything. 

Midnight came and went while Harry was reading and 
rereading a passage about the uses of scurvy-grass, 
lovage, and sneezewort and not taking in a word of 
it... 

These plantes are moste efficacious in the inflaming 
of the braine, and are therefore much used in 
Confusing and Befuddlement Draughts, where the 
wizard is desirous of producing hot-headedness and 
recklessness... 

... Hermione said Sirius was becoming reckless 
cooped up in Grimmauld Place... 

. . . moste efficacious in the inflaming of the braine, and 
are therefore much used . . . 

. . . the Daily Prophet would think his brain was 
inflamed if they found out that he knew what 
Voldemort was feeling ... 

. . . therefore much used in Confusing and 
Befuddlement Draughts . . . 

. . . confusing was the word, all right; why did he know 
what Voldemort was feeling? What was this weird 
connection between them, which Dumbledore had 
never been able to explain satisfactorily? 

. . . where the wizard is desirous . . . 

. . . how he would like to sleep . . . 

...of producing hot-headedness . . . 

| 491Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




... It was warm and comfortable in his armchair 
before the fire, with the rain still beating heavily on 
the windowpanes and Crookshanks purring and the 
crackling of the flames... 

The book slipped from Harry몭s slack grip and landed 
with a dull thud on the hearthrug. His head fell 
sideways... 

He was walking once more along a windowless 
corridor, his footsteps echoing in the silence. As the 
door at the end of the passage loomed larger his heart 
beat fast with excitement... If he could only open it ... 
enter beyond . . . 

He stretched out his hand... His fingertips were 
inches from it... 

몮Harry Potter, sir!몯 

He awoke with a start. The candles had all been 
extinguished in the common room, but there was 
something moving close by. 

몮Whozair?몯 said Harry, sitting upright in his chair. 

The fire was almost extinguished, the room very dark. 

몮Dobby has your owl, sir!몯 said a squeaky voice. 

몮Dobby?몯 said Harry thickly, peering through the 
gloom toward the source of the voice. 

Dobby the house-elf was standing beside the table on 
which Hermione had left her half a dozen knitted 
hats. His large, pointed ears were now sticking out 
from beneath what looked like all the hats that 
Hermione had ever knitted; he was wearing one on 
top of the other, so that his head seemed elongated by 



| 492Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




two or three feet, and on the very topmost bobble sat 
Hedwig, hooting serenely and obviously cured. 



몮Dobby volunteered to return Harry Potter몭s owl!몯 said 
the elf squeakily, with a look of positive adoration on 
his face. 몮Professor Grubbly-Plank says she is all well 
now, sir!몯 

He sank into a deep bow so that his pencil-like nose 
brushed the threadbare surface of the hearthrug and 
Hedwig gave an indignant hoot and fluttered onto the 
arm of Harry몭s chair. 

몮Thanks, Dobby!몯 said Harry, stroking Hedwig몭s head 
and blinking hard, trying to rid himself of the image 
of the door in his dream... It had been very vivid... 
Looking back at Dobby, he noticed that the elf was 
also wearing several scarves and innumerable socks, 
so that his feet looked far too big for his body. 

몮Er . . . have you been taking all the clothes 
Hermione몭s been leaving out?몯 

몮Oh no, sir,몯 said Dobby happily, 몮Dobby has been 
taking some for Winky too, sir.몯 

몮Yeah, how is Winky?몯 asked Harry. 

Dobby몭s ears drooped slightly. 

몮Winky is still drinking lots, sir,몯 he said sadly, his 
enormous round green eyes, large as tennis balls, 
downcast. 몮She still does not care for clothes, Harry 
Potter. Nor do the other house-elves. None of them 
will clean Gryffindor Tower anymore, not with the 
hats and socks hidden everywhere, they finds them 
insulting, sir. Dobby does it all himself, sir, but 
Dobby does not mind, sir, for he always hopes to meet 
Harry Potter and tonight, sir, he has got his wish!몯 
| 493Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Dobby sank into a deep bow again. 몮But Harry Potter 
does not seem happy,몯 Dobby went on, straightening 
up again and looking timidly at Harry. 몮Dobby heard 
him muttering in his sleep. Was Harry Potter having 
bad dreams?몯 

몮Not really bad,몯 said Harry, yawning and rubbing his 
eyes. 몮I몭ve had worse.몯 

The elf surveyed Harry out of his vast, orblike eyes. 
Then he said very seriously, his ears drooping, 

몮Dobby wishes he could help Harry Potter, for Harry 
Potter set Dobby free and Dobby is much, much 
happier now...몯 

Harry smiled. 

몮You can몭t help me, Dobby, but thanks for the offer...몯 

He bent and picked up his Potions book. He몭d have to 
try and finish the essay tomorrow. He closed the book 
and as he did so the firelight illuminated the thin 
white scars on the back of his hand 멪 the result of 
his detention with Umbridge. 

몮Wait a moment 멪 there is something you can do for 
me, Dobby,몯 said Harry slowly. 

The elf looked around, beaming. 

몮Name it, Harry Potter, sir!몯 

몮I need to find a place where twenty-eight people can 
practice Defense Against the Dark Arts without being 
discovered by any of the teachers. Especially,몯 Harry 
clenched his hand on the book, so that the scars 
shone pearly white, 몮Professor Umbridge.몯 



| 494Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He expected the elf몭s smile to vanish, his ears to 
droop; he expected him to say that this was 
impossible, or else that he would try, but his hopes 
were not high... What he had not expected was for 
Dobby to give a little skip, his ears waggling happily, 
and clap his hands together. 

몮Dobby knows the perfect place, sir!몯 he said happily. 
몮Dobby heard tell of it from the other house-elves 
when he came to Hogwarts, sir. It is known by us as 
the Come and Go Room, sir, or else as the Room of 
Requirement!몯 

몮Why?몯 said Harry curiously. 

몮Because it is a room that a person can only enter,몯 
said Dobby seriously, 몮when they have real need of it. 
Sometimes it is there, and sometimes it is not, but 
when it appears, it is always equipped for the seeker몭s 
needs. Dobby has used it, sir,몯 said the elf, dropping 
his voice and looking guilty, 몮when Winky has been 
very drunk. He has hidden her in the Room of 
Requirement and he has found antidotes to 
butterbeer there, and a nice elf-sized bed to settle her 
on while she sleeps it off, sir... And Dobby knows Mr. 
Filch has found extra cleaning materials there when 
he has run short, sir, and 멪 몯 

몮 멪 and if you really needed a bathroom,몯 said Harry, 
suddenly remembering something Dumbledore had 
said at the Yule Ball the previous Christmas, 몮would 
it fill itself with chamber pots?몯 

몮Dobby expects so, sir,몯 said Dobby, nodding 
earnestly. 몮It is a most amazing room, sir.몯 

몮How many people know about it?몯 said Harry, sitting 
up straighter in his chair. 



| 495Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Very few, sir. Mostly people stumbles across it when 
they needs it, sir, but often they never finds it again, 
for they do not know that it is always there waiting to 
be called into service, sir.몯 

몮It sounds brilliant,몯 said Harry, his heart racing. 몮It 
sounds perfect, Dobby. When can you show me where 
it is?몯 



몮Anytime, Harry Potter, sir,몯 said Dobby, looking 
delighted at Harry몭s enthusiasm. 몮We could go now, if 
you like!몯 

For a moment Harry was tempted to go now; he was 
halfway out of his seat, intending to hurry upstairs 
for his Invisibility Cloak when, not for the first time, a 
voice very much like Hermione몭s whispered in his ear: 
reckless. It was, after all, very late, he was exhausted 
and had Snape몭s essay to finish. 

몮Not tonight, Dobby,몯 said Harry reluctantly, sinking 
back into his chair. 몮This is really important... I don몭t 
want to blow it, it몭ll need proper planning... Listen, 
can you just tell me exactly where this Room of 
Requirement is and how to get in there?몯 

Their robes billowed and swirled around them as they 
splashed across the flooded vegetable patch to double 
Herbology, where they could hardly hear what 
Professor Sprout was saying over the hammering of 
raindrops hard as hailstones on the greenhouse roof. 
The afternoon몭s Care of Magical Creatures lesson was 
to be relocated from the storm-swept grounds to a 
free classroom on the ground floor and, to their 
intense relief, Angelina sought out her team at lunch 
to tell them that Quidditch practice was canceled. 

몮Good,몯 said Harry quietly, when she told him, 
몮because we몭ve found somewhere to have our first 

| 496Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Defense meeting. Tonight, eight o몭clock, seventh floor 
opposite that tapestry of Barnabas the Barmy being 
clubbed by those trolls. Can you tell Katie and 
Alicia?몯 

She looked slightly taken aback but promised to tell 
the others; Harry returned hungrily to his sausages 
and mash. When he looked up to take a drink of 
pumpkin juice, he found Hermione watching him. 

몮What?몯 he said thickly. 

몮Well ... it몭s just that Dobby몭s plans aren몭t always that 
safe. Don몭t you remember when he lost you all the 
bones in your arm?몯 

몮This room isn몭t just some mad idea of Dobby몭s; 
Dumbledore knows about it too, he mentioned it to 
me at the Yule Ball.몯 

Hermione몭s expression cleared. 

몮Dumbledore told you about it?몯 

몮Just in passing,몯 said Harry, shrugging. 

몮Oh well, that몭s all right then,몯 said Hermione briskly 
and she raised no more objections. 

Together with Ron they had spent most of the day 
seeking out those people who had signed their names 
to the list in the Hog몭s Head and telling them where to 
meet that evening. Somewhat to Harry몭s 
disappointment, it was Ginny who managed to find 
Cho Chang and her friend first; however, by the end 
of dinner he was confident that the news had been 
passed to every one of the twenty-five people who had 
turned up in the Hog몭s Head. 



| 497Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




At half-past seven Harry, Ron, and Hermione left the 
Gryffindor common room, Harry clutching a certain 
piece of aged parchment in his hand. Fifth years were 
allowed to be out in the corridors until nine o몭clock, 
but all three of them kept looking around nervously 
as they made their way up to the seventh floor. 

몮Hold it,몯 said Harry warningly, unfolding the piece of 
parchment at the top of the last staircase, tapping it 
with his wand, and muttering, 몮I solemnly swear that 
I am up to no good.몯 

A map of Hogwarts appeared upon the blank surface 
of the parchment. Tiny black moving dots, labeled 
with names, showed where various people were. 

몮Filch is on the second floor,몯 said Harry, holding the 
map close to his eyes and scanning it closely, 몮and 
Mrs. Norris is on the fourth.몯 

몮And Umbridge?몯 said Hermione anxiously. 

몮In her office,몯 said Harry, pointing. 몮Okay, let몭s go.몯 

They hurried along the corridor to the place Dobby 
had described to Harry, a stretch of blank wall 
opposite an enormous tapestry depicting Barnabas 
the Barmy몭s foolish attempt to train trolls for the 
ballet. 

몮Okay,몯 said Harry quietly, while a moth-eaten troll 
paused in his relentless clubbing of the would-be 
ballet teacher to watch. 몮Dobby said to walk past this 
bit of wall three times, concentrating hard on what we 
need.몯 

They did so, turning sharply at the window just 
beyond the blank stretch of wall, then at the man-size 
vase on its other side. Ron had screwed up his eyes in 

| 498Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




concentration, Hermione was whispering something 
under her breath, Harry몭s fists were clenched as he 
stared ahead of him. 

We need somewhere to learn to fight... he thought. 

Just give us a place to practice ... somewhere they 
can몭t find us ... 

몮Harry,몯 said Hermione sharply, as they wheeled 
around after their third walk past. 

A highly polished door had appeared in the wall. Ron 
was staring at it, looking slightly wary. Harry reached 
out, seized the brass handle, pulled open the door, 
and led the way into a spacious room lit with 
flickering torches like those that illuminated the 
dungeons eight floors below. 

The walls were lined with wooden bookcases, and 
instead of chairs there were large silk cushions on the 
floor. A set of shelves at the far end of the room 
carried a range of instruments such as Sneakoscopes, 
Secrecy Sensors, and a large, cracked Foe-Glass that 
Harry was sure had hung, the previous year, in the 
fake Moody몭s office. 

몮These will be good when we몭re practicing Stunning,몯 
said Ron enthusiastically, prodding one of the 
cushions with his foot. 

몮And just look at these books!몯 said Hermione 
excitedly, running a finger along the spines of the 
large leather-bound tomes. 몮A Compendium of 
Common Curses and Their Counter-Actions ... The 
Dark Arts Outsmarted ... Self-Defensive Spellwork ... 
wow ...몯 She looked around at Harry, her face 
glowing, and he saw that the presence of hundreds of 
books had finally convinced Hermione that what they 



| 499Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




were doing was right. 몮Harry, this is wonderful, 
there몭s everything we need here!몯 

And without further ado she slid Jinxes for the Jinxed 
from its shelf, sank onto the nearest cushion, and 
began to read. 

There was a gentle knock on the door. Harry looked 
around; Ginny, Neville, Lavender, Parvati, and Dean 
had arrived. 

몮Whoa,몯 said Dean, staring around, impressed. 몮What 
is this place?몯 

Harry began to explain, but before he had finished 
more people had arrived, and he had to start all over 
again. By the time eight o몭clock arrived, every cushion 
was occupied. Harry moved across to the door and 
turned the key protruding from the lock; it clicked in 
a satisfyingly loud way and everybody fell silent, 
looking at him. Hermione carefully marked her page 
of Jinxes for the Jinxed and set the book aside. 

몮Well,몯 said Harry, slightly nervously. 몮This is the 
place we몭ve found for practices, and you몭ve 멪 er 멪 
obviously found it okay 멪 몯 

몮It몭s fantastic!몯 said Cho, and several people 
murmured their agreement. 

몮It몭s bizarre,몯 said Fred, frowning around at it. 몮We 
once hid from Filch in here, remember, George? But it 
was just a broom cupboard then...몯 

몮Hey, Harry, what몭s this stuff?몯 asked Dean from the 
rear of the room, indicating the Sneakoscopes and the 
Foe-Glass. 



| 500Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Dark Detectors,몯 said Harry, stepping between the 
cushions to reach them. 몮Basically they all show 
when Dark wizards or enemies are around, but you 
don몭t want to rely on them too much, they can be 
fooled...몯 

He gazed for a moment into the cracked Foe-Glass; 
shadowy figures were moving around inside it, though 
none was recognizable. He turned his back on it. 

몮Well, I몭ve been thinking about the sort of stuff we 
ought to do first and 멪 er 멪 몯 He noticed a raised 
hand. 몮What, Hermione?몯 

몮I think we ought to elect a leader,몯 said Hermione. 

몮Harry몭s leader,몯 said Cho at once, looking at 
Hermione as though she were mad, and Harry몭s 
stomach did yet another back flip. 

몮Yes, but I think we ought to vote on it properly,몯 said 
Hermione, unperturbed. 몮It makes it formal and it 
gives him authority. So 멪 everyone who thinks Harry 
ought to be our leader?몯 

Everybody put up their hands, even Zacharias Smith, 
though he did it very halfheartedly. 

몮Er 멪 right, thanks,몯 said Harry, who could feel his 
face burning. 몮And 멪 what, Hermione?몯 

몮I also think we ought to have a name,몯 she said 
brightly, her hand still in the air. 몮It would promote a 
feeling of team spirit and unity, don몭t you think?몯 

몮Can we be the Anti-Umbridge League?몯 said Angelina 
hopefully. 



| 501Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Or the Ministry of Magic Are Morons Group?몯 
suggested Fred. 

몮I was thinking,몯 said Hermione, frowning at Fred, 
몮more of a name that didn몭t tell everyone what we 
were up to, so we can refer to it safely outside 
meetings.몯 

몮The Defense Association?몯 said Cho. 몮The D.A. for 
short, so nobody knows what we몭re talking about?몯 

몮Yeah, the D.A.몭s good,몯 said Ginny. 몮Only let몭s make 
it stand for Dumbledore몭s Army because that몭s the 
Ministry몭s worst fear, isn몭t it?몯 

There was a good deal of appreciative murmuring and 
laughter at this. 

몮All in favor of the D.A.?몯 said Hermione bossily, 
kneeling up on her cushion to count. 몮That몭s a 
majority 멪 motion passed!몯 

She pinned the piece of paper with all of their names 
on it on the wall and wrote DUMBLEDORE몭S ARMY 
across the top in large letters. 

몮Right,몯 said Harry, when she had sat down again, 
몮shall we get practicing then? I was thinking, the first 
thing we should do is Expelliarmus, you know, the 
Disarming Charm. I know it몭s pretty basic but I몭ve 
found it really useful 멪 몯 

몮Oh please,몯 said Zacharias Smith, rolling his eyes 
and folding his arms. 몮I don몭t think Expelliarmus is 
exactly going to help us against You-Know-Who, do 
you?몯 

몮I몭ve used it against him,몯 said Harry quietly. 몮It saved 
my life last June.몯 

| 502Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Smith opened his mouth stupidly. The rest of the 
room was very quiet. 

몮But if you think it몭s beneath you, you can leave,몯 
Harry said. 

Smith did not move. Nor did anybody else. 

몮Okay,몯 said Harry, his mouth slightly drier than 
usual with all those eyes upon him, 몮I reckon we 
should all divide into pairs and practice.몯 

It felt very odd to be issuing instructions, but not 
nearly as odd as seeing them followed. Everybody got 
to their feet at once and divided up. Predictably, 
Neville was left partnerless. 

몮You can practice with me,몯 Harry told him. 몮Right 멪 
on the count of three, then 멪 one, two, three 멪 몯 

The room was suddenly full of shouts of 
몮Expelliarmusl몯: Wands flew in all directions, missed 
spells hit books on shelves and sent them flying into 
the air. Harry was too quick for Neville, whose wand 
went spinning out of his hand, hit the ceiling in a 
shower of sparks, and landed with a clatter on top of 
a bookshelf, from which Harry retrieved it with a 
Summoning Charm. Glancing around he thought he 
had been right to suggest that they practice the 
basics first; there was a lot of shoddy spellwork going 
on; many people were not succeeding in disarming 
their opponents at all, but merely causing them to 
jump backward a few paces or wince as the feeble 
spell whooshed over them. 

몮Expelliarmusl몯 said Neville, and Harry, caught 
unawares, felt his wand fly out of his hand. 



| 503Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I DID IT!몯 said Neville gleefully. 몮I몭ve never done it 
before 멪 I DID IT!몯 



몮Good one!몯 said Harry encouragingly, deciding not to 
point out that in a real duel situation Neville몭s 
opponent was unlikely to be staring in the opposite 
direction with his wand held loosely at his side. 
몮Listen, Neville, can you take it in turns to practice 
with Ron and Hermione for a couple of minutes so I 
can walk around and see how the rest are doing?몯 

Harry moved off into the middle of the room. 
Something very odd was happening to Zacharias 
Smith; every time he opened his mouth to disarm 
Anthony Goldstein, his own wand would fly out of his 
hand, yet Anthony did not seem to be making a 
sound. Harry did not have to look far for the solution 
of the mystery, however; Fred and George were 
several feet from Smith and taking it in turns to point 
their wands at his back. 

몮Sorry, Harry,몯 said George hastily, when Harry 
caught his eye. 몮Couldn몭t resist ...몯 

Harry walked around the other pairs, trying to correct 
those who were doing the spell wrong. Ginny was 
teamed with Michael Corner; she was doing very well, 
whereas Michael was either very bad or unwilling to 
jinx her. Ernie Macmillan was flourishing his wand 
unnecessarily, giving his partner time to get in under 
his guard; the Creevey brothers were enthusiastic but 
erratic and mainly responsible for all the books 
leaping off the shelves around them. Luna Lovegood 
was similarly patchy, occasionally sending Justin 
Finch-Fletchley몭s wand spinning out of his hand, at 
other times merely causing his hair to stand on end. 

몮Okay, stop!몯 Harry shouted. 몮Stop\ STOP.몯 

| 504Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




I need a whistle, he thought, and immediately spotted 
one lying on top of the nearest row of books. He 
caught it up and blew hard. Everyone lowered their 
wands. 

몮That wasn몭t bad,몯 said Harry, 몮but there몭s definite 
room for improvement.몯 Zacharias Smith glared at 
him. 몮Let몭s try again...몯 

He moved off around the room again, stopping here 
and there to make suggestions. Slowly the general 
performance improved. He avoided going near Cho 
and her friend for a while, but after walking twice 
around every other pair in the room felt he could not 
ignore them any longer. 

몮Oh no,몯 said Cho rather wildly as he approached. 

몮 Expelliarmiousl I mean, Exnellimellius\ I 멪 oh, sorry, 
Marietta!몯 

Her curly-haired friend몭s sleeve had caught fire; 
Marietta extinguished it with her own wand and 
glared at Harry as though it was his fault. 

몮You made me nervous, I was doing all right before 
then!몯 Cho told Harry ruefully. 

몮That was quite good,몯 Harry lied, but when she 
raised her eyebrows he said, 몮Well, no, it was lousy, 
but I know you can do it properly, I was watching 
from over there...몯 

She laughed. Her friend Marietta looked at them 
rather sourly and turned away. 

몮Don몭t mind her,몯 Cho muttered. 몮She doesn몭t really 
want to be here but I made her come with me. Her 
parents have forbidden her to do anything that might 



| 505Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




upset Umbridge, you see 멪 her mum works for the 
Ministry.몯 

몮What about your parents?몯 asked Harry. 

몮Well, they몭ve forbidden me to get on the wrong side of 
Umbridge too,몯 said Cho, drawing herself up proudly. 
몮But if they think I몭m not going to fight You-Know- 
Who after what happened to Cedric 멪 몯 

She broke off, looking rather confused, and an 
awkward silence fell between them; Terry Boot몭s wand 
went whizzing past Harry몭s ear and hit Alicia Spinnet 
hard on the nose. 

몮Well, my father is very supportive of any anti- 
Ministry action!몯 said Luna Lovegood proudly from 
just behind Harry; evidently she had been 
eavesdropping on his conversation while Justin 
Finch-Fletchley attempted to disentangle himself from 
the robes that had flown up over his head. 몮He몭s 
always saying he몭d believe anything of Fudge, I mean, 
the number of goblins Fudge has had assassinated! 
And of course he uses the Department of Mysteries to 
develop terrible poisons, which he feeds secretly to 
anybody who disagrees with him. And then there몭s his 
Umgubular Slashkilter 멪 몯 

몮Don몭t ask,몯 Harry muttered to Cho as she opened her 
mouth, looking puzzled. She giggled. 

몮Hey, Harry,몯 Hermione called from the other end of 
the room, 몮have you checked the time?몯 

He looked down at his watch and received a shock 멪 
it was already ten past nine, which meant they 
needed to get back to their common rooms 
immediately or risk being caught and punished by 
Filch for being out-of-bounds. He blew his whistle; 
| 506Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




everybody stopped shouting, 몮 Expelliarmusl몯 and the 
last couple of wands clattered to the floor. 

몮Well, that was pretty good,몯 said Harry, 몮but we몭ve 
overrun, we몭d better leave it here. Same time, same 
place next week?몯 

몮Sooner!몯 said Dean Thomas eagerly and many people 
nodded in agreement. 

Angelina, however, said quickly, 몮The Quidditch 
season몭s about to start, we need team practices too!몯 

몮Let몭s say next Wednesday night, then,몯 said Harry, 
몮and we can decide on additional meetings then... 
Come on, we몭d better get going...몯 

He pulled out the Marauder몭s Map again and checked 
it carefully for signs of teachers on the seventh floor. 
He let them all leave in threes and fours, watching 
their tiny dots anxiously to see that they returned 
safely to their dormitories: the Hufflepuffs to the 
basement corridor that also led to the kitchens, the 
Ravenclaws to a tower on the west side of the castle, 
and the Gryffindors along the corridor to the seventh 
floor and the Fat Lady몭s portrait. 

몮That was really, really good, Harry,몯 said Hermione, 
when finally it was just her, Harry, and Ron left. 

몮Yeah, it was!몯 said Ron enthusiastically, as they 
slipped out of the door and watched it melt back into 
stone behind them. 몮Did you see me disarm 
Hermione, Harry?몯 

몮Only once,몯 said Hermione, stung. 몮I got you loads 
more than you got me 멪 몯 



| 507Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I did not only get you once, I got you at least three 
times 멪 몯 

몮Well, if you몭re counting the one where you tripped 
over your own feet and knocked the wand out of my 
hand 멪 몯 

They argued all the way back to the common room, 
but Harry was not listening to them. He had one eye 
on the Marauder몭s Map, but he was also thinking of 
how Cho had said he made her nervous... 



| 508Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






THE LION AND THE SERPENT 

Harry felt as though he were carrying some kind of 
talisman inside his chest over the following two 
weeks, a glowing secret that supported him through 
Umbridge몭s classes and even made it possible for him 
to smile blandly as he looked into her horrible bulging 
eyes. He and the D.A. were resisting her under her 
very nose, doing the very thing that she and the 
Ministry most feared, and whenever he was supposed 
to be reading Wilbert Slinkhard몭s book during her 
lessons he dwelled instead on satisfying memories of 
their most recent meetings, remembering how Neville 
had successfully disarmed Hermione, how Colin 
Creevey had mastered the Impediment Jinx after 
three meetings몭 hard effort, how Parvati Patil had 
produced such a good Reductor Curse that she had 
reduced the table carrying all the Sneakoscopes to 
dust. 

He was finding it almost impossible to fix a regular 
night of the week for D.A. meetings, as they had to 
accommodate three separate Quidditch teams몭 
practices, which were often rearranged depending on 

| 509Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



the weather conditions; but Harry was not sorry 
about this, he had a feeling that it was probably 
better to keep the timing of their meetings 
unpredictable. If anyone was watching them, it would 
be hard to make out a pattern. 

Hermione soon devised a very clever method of 
communicating the time and date of the next meeting 
to all the members in case they needed to change it at 
short notice, because it would look so suspicious if 
people from different Houses were seen crossing the 
Great Hall to talk to each other too often. She gave 
each of the members of the D.A. a fake Galleon (Ron 
became very excited when he saw the basket at first, 
convinced that she was actually giving out gold). 

몮You see the numerals around the edge of the coins?몯 
Hermione said, holding one up for examination at the 
end of their fourth meeting. The coin gleamed fat and 
yellow in the light from the torches. 몮On real Galleons 
that몭s just a serial number referring to the goblin who 
cast the coin. On these fake coins, though, the 
numbers will change to reflect the time and date of 
the next meeting. The coins will grow hot when the 
date changes, so if you몭re carrying them in a pocket 
you몭ll be able to feel them. We take one each, and 
when Harry sets the date of the next meeting he몭ll 
change the numbers on his coin, and because I몭ve put 
a Protean Charm on them, they몭ll all change to mimic 
his.몯 

A blank silence greeted Hermione 몭s words. She looked 
around at all the faces upturned to her, rather 
disconcerted. 

몮Well 멪 I thought it was a good idea,몯 she said 
uncertainly, 몮I mean, even if Umbridge asked us to 
turn out our pockets, there몭s nothing fishy about 



| 510Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




carrying a Galleon, is there? But ... well, if you don몭t 
want to use them ...몯 

몮You can do a Protean Charm?몯 said Terry Boot. 

몮Yes,몯 said Hermione. 

몮But that몭s ... that몭s N.E.W.T. standard, that is,몯 he 
said weakly. 

몮Oh,몯 said Hermione, trying to look modest. 몮Oh ... 
well ... yes, I suppose it is...몯 

몮How come you몭re not in Ravenclaw?몯 he demanded, 
staring at Hermione with something close to wonder. 
몮With brains like yours?몯 

몮Well, the Sorting Hat did seriously consider putting 
me in Ravenclaw during my Sorting,몯 said Hermione 
brightly, 몮but it decided on Gryffindor in the end. So 
does that mean we몭re using the Galleons?몯 

There was a murmur of assent and everybody moved 
forward to collect one from the basket. Harry looked 
sideways at Hermione. 

몮You know what these remind me of?몯 

몮No, what몭s that?몯 

몮The Death Eaters몭 scars. Voldemort touches one of 
them, and all their scars burn, and they know they몭ve 
got to join him.몯 

몮Well ... yes,몯 said Hermione quietly. 몮That is where I 
got the idea ... but you몭ll notice I decided to engrave 
the date on bits of metal rather than on our members몭 
skin...몯 



| 511Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Yeah ... I prefer your way,몯 said Harry, grinning, as 
he slipped his Galleon into his pocket. 몮I suppose the 
only danger with these is that we might accidentally 
spend them.몯 

몮Fat chance,몯 said Ron, who was examining his own 
fake Galleon with a slightly mournful air. 몮I haven몭t 
got any real Galleons to confuse it with.몯 

As the first Quidditch match of the season, Gryffindor 
versus Slytherin, drew nearer, their D.A. meetings 
were put on hold because Angelina insisted on almost 
daily practices. The fact that the Quidditch Cup had 
not been held for so long added considerably to the 
interest and excitement surrounding the forthcoming 
game. The Ravenclaws and Hufflepuffs were taking a 
lively interest in the outcome, for they, of course, 
would be playing both teams over the coming year; 
and the Heads of House of the competing teams, 
though they attempted to disguise it under a decent 
pretense of sportsmanship, were determined to see 
their side몭s victory. Harry realized how much 
Professor McGonagall cared about beating Slytherin 
when she abstained from giving them homework in 
the week leading up to the match. 

몮I think you몭ve got enough to be getting on with at the 
moment,몯 she said loftily. Nobody could quite believe 
their ears until she looked directly at Harry and Ron 
and said grimly, 몮I몭ve become accustomed to seeing 
the Quidditch Cup in my study, boys, and I really 
don몭t want to have to hand it over to Professor Snape, 
so use the extra time to practice, won몭t you?몯 

Snape was no less obviously partisan: He had booked 
the Quidditch pitch for Slytherin practice so often 
that the Gryffindors had difficulty getting on it to 
play. He was also turning a deaf ear to the many 
reports of Slytherin attempts to hex Gryffindor 
| 512Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




players in the corridors. When Alicia Spinnet turned 
up in the hospital wing with her eyebrows growing so 
thick and fast that they obscured her vision and 
obstructed her mouth, Snape insisted that she must 
have attempted a Hair-Thickening Charm on herself 
and refused to listen to the fourteen eyewitnesses who 
insisted that they had seen the Slytherin Keeper, 

Miles Bletchley, hit her from behind with a jinx while 
she worked in the library. 

Harry felt optimistic about Gryffindor몭s chances; they 
had, after all, never lost to Malfoy몭s team. Admittedly 
Ron was still not performing to Wood몭s standard, but 
he was working extremely hard to improve. His 
greatest weakness was a tendency to lose confidence 
when he made a blunder; if he let in one goal he 
became flustered and was therefore likely to miss 
more. On the other hand, Harry had seen Ron make 
some truly spectacular saves when he was on form: 
During one memorable practice, he had hung one- 
handed from his broom and kicked the Quaffle so 
hard away from the goal hoop that it soared the 
length of the pitch and through the center hoop at the 
other end. The rest of the team felt this save 
compared favorably with one made recently by Barry 
Ryan, the Irish International Keeper, against Poland몭s 
top Chaser, Ladislaw Zamojski. Even Fred had said 
that Ron might yet make him and George proud, and 
that they were seriously considering admitting that he 
was related to them, something he assured Ron they 
had been trying to deny for four years. 

The only thing really worrying Harry was how much 
Ron was allowing the tactics of the Slytherin team to 
upset him before they even got onto the pitch. Harry, 
of course, had endured their snide comments for 
more than four years, so whispers of, 몮Hey, Potty, I 
heard Warrington몭s sworn to knock you off your 
broom on Saturday,몯 far from chilling his blood, made 
| 513Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




him laugh. 몮Warrington몭s aim몭s so pathetic I몭d be 
more worried if he was aiming for the person next to 
me,몯 he retorted, which made Ron and Hermione 
laugh and wiped the smirk off Pansy Parkinson몭s face. 

But Ron had never endured a relentless campaign of 
insults, jeers, and intimidation. When Slytherins, 
some of them seventh years and considerably larger 
than he was, muttered as they passed in the 
corridors, 몮Got your bed booked in the hospital wing, 
Weasley?몯 he did not laugh, but turned a delicate 
shade of green. When Draco Malfoy imitated Ron 
dropping the Quaffle (which he did whenever they 
were within sight of each other), Ron몭s ears glowed 
red and his hands shook so badly that he was likely 
to drop whatever he was holding at the time too. 

October extinguished itself in a rush of howling winds 
and driving rain and November arrived, cold as frozen 
iron, with hard frosts every morning and icy drafts 
that bit at exposed hands and faces. The skies and 
the ceiling of the Great Hall turned a pale, pearly 
gray, the mountains around Hogwarts became 
snowcapped, and the temperature in the castle 
dropped so far that many students wore their thick 
protective dragon skin gloves in the corridors between 
lessons. 

The morning of the match dawned bright and cold. 
When Harry awoke he looked around at Ron몭s bed 
and saw him sitting bolt upright, his arms around his 
knees, staring fixedly into space. 

몮You all right?몯 said Harry. 

Ron nodded but did not speak. Harry was reminded 
forcibly of the time that Ron had accidentally put a 
slug- vomiting charm on himself. He looked just as 



| 514Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




pale and sweaty as he had done then, not to mention 
as reluctant to open his mouth. 



몮You just need some breakfast,몯 Harry said bracingly. 
몮C몭mon.몯 

The Great Hall was filling up fast when they arrived, 
the talk louder and the mood more exuberant than 
usual. As they passed the Slytherin table there was 
an upsurge of noise; Harry looked around and saw 
that nearly everyone there was wearing, in addition to 
the usual green-and-silver scarves and hats, silver 
badges in the shape of what seemed to be crowns. For 
some reason many of them waved at Ron, laughing 
uproariously. Harry tried to see what was written on 
the badges as he walked by, but he was too 
concerned to get Ron past their table quickly to linger 
long enough to read them. 

They received a rousing welcome at the Gryffindor 
table, where everyone was wearing red and gold, but 
far from raising Ron몭s spirits the cheers seemed to 
sap the last of his morale; he collapsed onto the 
nearest bench looking as though he were facing his 
final meal. 

몮I must몭ve been mental to do this,몯 he said in a croaky 
whisper. 몮Mental.몯 

몮Don몭t be thick,몯 said Harry firmly, passing him a 
choice of cereals. 몮You몭re going to be fine. It몭s normal 
to be nervous.몯 

몮I몭m rubbish,몯 croaked Ron. 몮I몭m lousy. I can몭t play to 
save my life. What was I thinking?몯 

몮Get a grip,몯 said Harry sternly. 몮Look at that save 
you made with your foot the other day, even Fred and 
George said it was brilliant 멪 몯 

| 515Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Ron turned a tortured face to Harry. 



몮That was an accident,몯 he whispered miserably. 몮I 
didn몭t mean to do it 멪 I slipped off my broom when 
none of you were looking and I was trying to get back 
on and I kicked the Quaffle by accident.몯 

몮Well,몯 said Harry, recovering quickly from this 
unpleasant surprise, 몮a few more accidents like that 
and the game몭s in the bag, isn몭t it?몯 

Hermione and Ginny sat down opposite them wearing 
red-and-gold scarves, gloves, and rosettes. 

몮How몭re you feeling?몯 Ginny asked Ron, who was now 
staring into the dregs of milk at the bottom of his 
empty cereal bowl as though seriously considering 
attempting to drown himself in them. 

몮He몭s just nervous,몯 said Harry. 

몮Well, that몭s a good sign, I never feel you perform as 
well in exams if you몭re not a bit nervous,몯 said 
Hermione heartily. 

몮Hello,몯 said a vague and dreamy voice from behind 
them. Harry looked up: Luna Lovegood had drifted 
over from the Ravenclaw table. Many people were 
staring at her and a few openly laughing and 
pointing; she had managed to procure a hat shaped 
like a life-size lion몭s head, which was perched 
precariously on her head. 

몮I몭m supporting Gryffindor,몯 said Luna, pointing 
unnecessarily at her hat. 몮Look what it does...몯 

She reached up and tapped the hat with her wand. It 
opened its mouth wide and gave an extremely realistic 
roar that made everyone in the vicinity jump. 

| 516Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮It몭s good, isn몭t it?몯 said Luna happily. 몮I wanted to 
have it chewing up a serpent to represent Slytherin, 
you know, but there wasn몭t time. Anyway ... good 
luck, Ronald!몯 

She drifted away. They had not quite recovered from 
the shock of Luna몭s hat before Angelina came 
hurrying toward them, accompanied by Katie and 
Alicia, whose eyebrows had mercifully been returned 
to normal by Madam Pomfrey. 

몮When you몭re ready,몯 she said, 몮we몭re going to go 
straight down to the pitch, check out conditions and 
change.몯 

몮We몭ll be there in a bit,몯 Harry assured her. 몮Ron몭s 
just got to have some breakfast.몯 

It became clear after ten minutes, however, that Ron 
was not capable of eating anything more and Harry 
thought it best to get him down to the changing 
rooms. As they rose from the table, Hermione got up 
too, and taking Harry몭s arm, she drew him to one 
side. 

몮Don몭t let Ron see what몭s on those Slytherins몭 
badges,몯 she whispered urgently. 

Harry looked questioningly at her, but she shook her 
head warningly; Ron had just ambled over to them, 
looking lost and desperate. 

몮Good luck, Ron,몯 said Hermione, standing on tiptoe 
and kissing him on the cheek. 몮And you, Harry 멪 몯 

Ron seemed to come to himself slightly as they 
walked back across the Great Hall. He touched the 
spot on his face where Hermione had kissed him, 
looking puzzled, as though he was not quite sure 

| 517Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




what had just happened. He seemed too distracted to 
notice much around him, but Harry cast a curious 
glance at the crown-shaped badges as they passed 
the Slytherin table, and this time he made out the 
words etched onto them: 

WEASLEY 

IS OUR KING 

With an unpleasant feeling that this could mean 
nothing good, he hurried Ron across the entrance 
hall, down the stone steps, and out into the icy air. 

The frosty grass crunched under their feet as they 
hurried down the sloping lawns toward the stadium. 
There was no wind at all and the sky was a uniform 
pearly white, which meant that visibility would be 
good without the drawback of direct sunlight in the 
eyes. Harry pointed out these encouraging factors to 
Ron as they walked, but he was not sure that Ron 
was listening. 

Angelina had changed already and was talking to the 
rest of the team when they entered. Harry and Ron 
pulled on their robes (Ron attempted to do his up 
back-to-front for several minutes before Alicia took 
pity on him and went to help) and then sat down to 
listen to the pre-match talk while the babble of voices 
outside grew steadily louder as the crowd came 
pouring out of the castle toward the pitch. 

몮Okay, Eve only just found out the final lineup for 
Slytherin,몯 said Angelina, consulting a piece of 
parchment. 몮Last year몭s Beaters, Derrick and Bole, 
have left now, but it looks as though Montague몭s 
replaced them with the usual gorillas, rather than 
anyone who can fly particularly well. They몭re two 



| 518Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




blokes called Crabbe and Goyle, I don몭t know much 
about them 멪 몯 

몮We do,몯 said Harry and Ron together. 

몮Well, they don몭t look bright enough to tell one end of 
a broom from another,몯 said Angelina, pocketing her 
parchment, 몮but then I was always surprised Derrick 
and Bole managed to find their way onto the pitch 
without signposts.몯 

몮Crabbe and Goyle are in the same mold,몯 Harry 
assured her. 

They could hear hundreds of footsteps mounting the 
banked benches of the spectators몭 stands now. Some 
people were singing, though Harry could not make 
out the words. He was starting to feel nervous, but he 
knew his butterflies were as nothing to Ron몭s, who 
was clutching his stomach and staring straight ahead 
again, his jaw set and his complexion pale gray. 

몮It몭s time,몯 said Angelina in a hushed voice, looking at 
her watch. 몮C몭mon everyone ... good luck.몯 

The team rose, shouldered their brooms, and 
marched in single file out of the changing room and 
into the dazzling sunlight. A roar of sound greeted 
them in which Harry could still hear singing, though 
it was muffled by the cheers and whistles. 

The Slytherin team were standing waiting for them. 
They too were wearing those silver crown-shaped 
badges. The new captain, Montague, was built along 
the same lines as Dudley, with massive forearms like 
hairy hams. Behind him lurked Crabbe and Goyle, 
almost as large, blinking stupidly in the sunlight, 
swinging their new Beaters몭 bats. Malfoy stood to one 
side, the sunlight gleaming on his white-blond head. 
| 519Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He caught Harry몭s eye and smirked, tapping the 
crown-shaped badge on his chest. 

몮Captains shake hands,몯 ordered the umpire, Madam 
Hooch, as Angelina and Montague reached each 
other. Harry could tell that Montague was trying to 
crush Angelina몭s fingers, though she did not wince. 
몮Mount your brooms...몯 

Madam Hooch placed her whistle in her mouth and 
blew. 

The balls were released and the fourteen players shot 
upward; out of the corner of his eye Harry saw Ron 
streak off toward the goal hoops. He zoomed higher, 
dodging a Bludger, and set off on a wide lap of the 
pitch, gazing around for a glint of gold; on the other 
side of the stadium, Draco Malfoy was doing exactly 
the same. 

몮And it몭s Johnson, Johnson with the Quaffle, what a 
player that girl is, I몭ve been saying it for years but she 
still won몭t go out with me 멪 몯 

몮JORDAN!몯 yelled Professor McGonagall. 

몮Just a fun fact, Professor, adds a bit of interest 멪 
and she몭s ducked Warrington, she몭s passed 
Montague, she몭s 멪 ouch 멪 been hit from behind by a 
Bludger from Crabbe... Montague catches the Quaffle, 
Montague heading back up the pitch and 멪 nice 
Bludger there from George Weasley, that몭s a Bludger 
to the head for Montague, he drops the Quaffle, 
caught by Katie Bell, Katie Bell of Gryffindor reverse 
passes to Alicia Spinnet and Spinnet몭s away 멪 몯 

Lee Jordan몭s commentary rang through the stadium 
and Harry listened as hard as he could through the 



| 520Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




wind whistling in his ears and the din of the crowd, 
all yelling and booing and singing 멪 

몮 멪 dodges Warrington, avoids a Bludger 멪 close call, 
Alicia 멪 and the crowd are loving this, just listen to 
them, what몭s that they몭re singing?몯 

And as Lee paused to listen the song rose loud and 
clear from the sea of green and silver in the Slytherin 
section of the stands: 

Weasley cannot save a thing, 

He cannot block a single ring, 

That몭s why Slytherins all sing: 

Weasley is our King. 

Weasley was born in a bin, 

He always lets the Quaffle in, 

Weasley will make sure we win, 

Weasley is our King. 

몮 멪 and Alicia passes back to Angelina!몯 Lee shouted, 
and as Harry swerved, his insides boiling at what he 
had just heard, he knew Lee was trying to drown out 
the sound of the singing. 몮Come on now, Angelina 멪 
looks like she몭s got just the Keeper to beat! 멪 SHE 
SHOOTS 멪 SHE 멪 aaaah ...몯 

Bletchley, the Slytherin Keeper, had saved the goal; 
he threw the Quaffle to Warrington who sped off with 
it, zigzagging in between Alicia and Katie; the singing 
from below grew louder and louder as he drew nearer 
and nearer Ron 멪 

Weasley is our King, 

Weasley is our King, 

He always lets the Quaffle in, 

Weasley is our King. 



| 521Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry could not help himself: Abandoning his search 
for the Snitch, he turned his Firebolt toward Ron, a 
lone figure at the far end of the pitch, hovering before 
the three goal hoops while the massive Warrington 
pelted toward him ... 

몮 멪 and it몭s Warrington with the Quaffle, Warrington 
heading for goal, he몭s out of Bludger range with just 
the Keeper ahead 멪 몯 

A great swell of song rose from the Slytherin stands 
below: 

Weasley cannot save a thing, 

He cannot block a single ring . . . 

몮 멪 so it몭s the first test for new Gryffindor Keeper, 
Weasley, brother of Beaters, Fred and George, and a 
promising new talent on the team 멪 come on, Ron!몯 

But the scream of delight came from the Slytherin 
end: Ron had dived wildly, his arms wide, and the 
Quaffle had soared between them, straight through 
Ron몭s central hoop. 

몮Slytherin score!몯 came Lee몭s voice amid the cheering 
and booing from the crowds below. 몮So that몭s ten-nil 
to Slytherin 멪 bad luck, Ron ...몯 

The Slytherins sang even louder: 

WEASLEY WAS BORN IN A BIN, 

HE ALWAYS LETS THE QUAFFLE IN ... 

몮 멪 and Gryffindor back in possession and it몭s Katie 
Bell tanking up the pitch 멪 몯 cried Lee valiantly, 
though the singing was now so deafening that he 
could hardly make himself heard above it. 



| 522Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




WEASLEY WILL MAKE SURE WE WIN, 

WEASLEY IS OUR KING . . . 

몮Harry, WHAT ARE YOU DOING?몯 screamed Angelina, 
soaring past him to keep up with Katie. 몮GET 
GOING!몯 

Harry realized that he had been stationary in midair 
for more than a minute, watching the progress of the 
match without sparing a thought for the whereabouts 
of the Snitch; horrified, he went into a dive and 
started circling the pitch again, staring around, trying 
to ignore the chorus now thundering through the 
stadium: 

WEASLEY IS OUR KING, 

WEASLEY IS OUR KING . . . 

There was no sign of the Snitch anywhere he looked; 
Malfoy was still circling the stadium just like Harry. 
They passed midway around the pitch going in 
opposite directions and Harry heard Malfoy singing 
loudly, 

WEASLEY WAS BORN IN A BIN . . . 

몮 멪 and it몭s Warrington again,몯 bellowed Lee, 몮who 
passes to Pucey, Pucey몭s off past Spinnet, come on 
now Angelina, you can take him 멪 turns out you 
can몭t 멪 but nice Bludger from Fred Weasley, I mean, 
George Weasley, oh who cares, one of them anyway, 
and Warrington drops the Quaffle and Katie Bell 멪 er 
멪 drops it too 멪 so that몭s Montague with the Quaffle, 
Slytherin Captain Montague takes the Quaffle, and 
he몭s off up the pitch, come on now Gryffindor, block 
him!몯 

Harry zoomed around the end of the stadium behind 
the Slytherin goal hoops, willing himself not to look at 

| 523Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




what was going on at Ron몭s end; as he sped past the 
Slytherin Keeper, he heard Bletchley singing along 
with the crowd below, 

WEASLEY CANNOT SAVE A THING . . . 

몮 멪 and Pucey몭s dodged Alicia again, and he몭s heading 
straight for goal, stop it, Ron!몯 

Harry did not have to look to see what had happened: 
There was a terrible groan from the Gryffindor end, 
coupled with fresh screams and applause from the 
Slytherins. Looking down, Harry saw the pug-faced 
Pansy Parkinson right at the front of the stands, her 
back to the pitch as she conducted the Slytherin 
supporters who were roaring: 

THAT몭S WHY SLYTHERINS ALL SING: 

WEASLEY IS OUR KING. 

But twenty-nil was nothing, there was still time for 
Gryffindor to catch up or catch the Snitch, a few goals 
and they would be in the lead as usual, Harry 
assured himself, bobbing and weaving through the 
other players in pursuit of something shiny that 
turned out to be Montague몭s watch strap... 

But Ron let in two more goals. There was an edge of 
panic in Harry몭s desire to find the Snitch now. If he 
could just get it soon and finish the game quickly ... 

몮 멪 and Katie Bell of Gryffindor dodges Pucey, ducks 
Montague, nice swerve, Katie, and she throws to 
Johnson, Angelina Johnson takes the Quaffle, she몭s 
past Warrington, she몭s heading for goal, come on now 
Angelina 멪 GRYFFINDOR SCORE! It몭s forty-ten, forty- 
ten to Slytherin and Pucey has the Quaffle...몯 



| 524Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry could hear Luna몭s ludicrous lion hat roaring 
amidst the Gryffindor cheers and felt heartened; only 
thirty points in it, that was nothing, they could pull 
back easily. Harry ducked a Bludger that Crabbe had 
sent rocketing in his direction and resumed his 
frantic scouring of the pitch for the Snitch, keeping 
one eye on Malfoy in case he showed signs of having 
spotted it, but Malfoy, like him, was continuing to 
soar around the stadium, searching fruitlessly . . . 

몮 멪 Pucey throws to Warrington, Warrington to 
Montague, Montague back to Pucey 멪 Johnson 
intervenes, Johnson takes the Quaffle, Johnson to 
Bell, this looks good 멪 I mean bad 멪 Bell몭s hit by a 
Bludger from Goyle of Slytherin and it몭s Pucey in 
possession again ...몯 

WEASLEY WAS BORN IN A BIN, 

HE ALWAYS LETS THE QUAFFLE IN, 

WEASLEY WILL MAKE SURE WE WIN 멪 

But Harry had seen it at last: The tiny fluttering 
Golden Snitch was hovering feet from the ground at 
the Slytherin end of the pitch. 

He dived... 

In a matter of seconds, Malfoy was streaking out of 
the sky on Harry몭s left, a green-and-silver blur lying 
flat on his broom... 

The Snitch skirted the foot of one of the goal hoops 
and scooted off toward the other side of the stands; 
its change of direction suited Malfoy, who was nearer. 
Harry pulled his Firebolt around, he and Malfoy were 
now neck and neck . . . 



| 525Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Feet from the ground, Harry lifted his right hand from 
his broom, stretching toward the Snitch ... to his 
right, Malfoy몭s arm extended too, reaching, groping ... 

It was over in two breathless, desperate, windswept 
seconds 멪 Harry몭s fingers closed around the tiny, 
struggling ball 멪 Malfoy몭s fingernails scrabbled the 
back of Harry몭s hand hopelessly 멪 Harry pulled his 
broom upward, holding the struggling ball in his 
hand and the Gryffindor spectators screamed their 
approval... 

They were saved, it did not matter that Ron had let in 
those goals, nobody would remember as long as 
Gryffindor had won 멪 

WHAM 

A Bludger hit Harry squarely in the small of the back 
and he flew forward off his broom; luckily he was only 
five or six feet above the ground, having dived so low 
to catch the Snitch, but he was winded all the same 
as he landed flat on his back on the frozen pitch. He 
heard Madam Hooch몭s shrill whistle, an uproar in the 
stands compounded of catcalls, angry yells and 
jeering, a thud, then Angelina몭s frantic voice. 

몮Are you all right?몯 

몮 몭Course I am,몯 said Harry grimly, taking her hand 
and allowing her to pull him to his feet. Madam 
Hooch was zooming toward one of the Slytherin 
players above him, though he could not see who it 
was at this angle. 

몮It was that thug, Crabbe,몯 said Angelina angrily. 몮He 
whacked the Bludger at you the moment he saw you몭d 
got the Snitch 멪 but we won, Harry, we won!몯 



| 526Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry heard a snort from behind him and turned 
around, still holding the Snitch tightly in his hand: 
Draco Malfoy had landed close by; white-faced with 
fury, he was still managing to sneer. 

몮Saved Weasley몭s neck, haven몭t you?몯 he said to 
Harry. 몮I몭ve never seen a worse Keeper ... but then he 
was born in a bin... Did you like my lyrics, Potter?몯 

Harry did not answer; he turned away to meet the 
rest of the team who were now landing one by one, 
yelling and punching the air in triumph, all except 
Ron, who had dismounted from his broom over by the 
goalposts and was making his way slowly back to the 
changing rooms alone. 

몮We wanted to write another couple of verses!몯 Malfoy 
called, as Katie and Alicia hugged Harry. 몮But we 
couldn몭t find rhymes for fat and ugly 멪 we wanted to 
sing about his mother, see 멪 몯 

몮Talk about sour grapes,몯 said Angelina, casting 
Malfoy a disgusted look. 

몮 멪 we couldn몭t fit in useless loser either 멪 for his 
father, you know 멪 몯 

Fred and George had realized what Malfoy was talking 
about. Halfway through shaking Harry몭s hand they 
stiffened, looking around at Malfoy. 

몮Leave it,몯 said Angelina at once, taking Fred by the 
arm. 몮Leave it, Fred, let him yell, he몭s just sore he 
lost, the jumped-up little 멪 몯 

몮 멪 but you like the Weasleys, don몭t you, Potter?몯 said 
Malfoy, sneering. 몮Spend holidays there and 
everything, don몭t you? Can몭t see how you stand the 



| 527Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




stink, but I suppose when you몭ve been dragged up by 
Muggles even the Weasleys몭 hovel smells okay 멪 몯 

Harry grabbed hold of George; meanwhile it was 
taking the combined efforts of Angelina, Alicia, and 
Katie to stop Fred leaping on Malfoy, who was 
laughing openly. Harry looked around for Madam 
Hooch, but she was still berating Crabbe for his illegal 
Bludger attack. 

몮Or perhaps,몯 said Malfoy, leering as he backed away, 
몮you can remember what your mother몭s house stank 
like, Potter, and Weasley몭s pigsty reminds you of it 멪 몯 

Harry was not aware of releasing George, all he knew 
was that a second later both of them were sprinting at 
Malfoy. He had completely forgotten the fact that all 
the teachers were watching: All he wanted to do was 
cause Malfoy as much pain as possible. With no time 
to draw out his wand, he merely drew back the fist 
clutching the Snitch and sank it as hard as he could 
into Malfoy몭s stomach 멪 

몮Harry! HARRY! GEORGE! 1VO!몯 

He could hear girls몭 voices screaming, Malfoy yelling, 
George swearing, a whistle blowing, and the bellowing 
of the crowd around him, but he did not care, not 
until somebody in the vicinity yelled 몮 IMPEDIMENTA !몯 
and only when he was knocked over backward by the 
force of the spell did he abandon the attempt to 
punch every inch of Malfoy he could reach... 

몮What do you think you몭re doing?몯 screamed Madam 
Hooch, as Harry leapt to his feet again; it was she 
who had hit him with the Impediment Jinx. She was 
holding her whistle in one hand and a wand in the 
other, her broom lay abandoned several feet away. 
Malfoy was curled up on the ground, whimpering and 
| 528Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




moaning, his nose bloody; George was sporting a 
swollen lip; Fred was still being forcibly restrained by 
the three Chasers, and Crabbe was cackling in the 
background. 몮I몭ve never seen behavior like it 멪 back 
up to the castle, both of you, and straight to your 
Head of House몭s office! Go! Now\몯 

Harry and George marched off the pitch, both 
panting, neither saying a word to each other. The 
howling and jeering of the crowd grew fainter and 
fainter until they reached the entrance hall, where 
they could hear nothing except the sound of their own 
footsteps. Harry became aware that something was 
still struggling in his right hand, the knuckles of 
which he had bruised against Malfoy몭s jaw; looking 
down he saw the Snitch몭s silver wings protruding 
from between his fingers, struggling for release. 

They had barely reached the door of Professor 
McGonagall몭s office when she came marching along 
the corridor behind them. She was wearing a 
Gryffindor scarf, but tore it from her throat with 
shaking hands as she strode toward them, looking 
livid. 

몮In!몯 she said furiously, pointing to the door. Harry 
and George entered. She strode around behind her 
desk and faced them, quivering with rage as she 
threw the Gryffindor scarf aside onto the floor. 

몮Well?몯 she said. 몮I have never seen such a disgraceful 
exhibition. Two onto one! Explain yourselves!몯 

몮Malfoy provoked us,몯 said Harry stiffly. 

몮Provoked you?몯 shouted Professor McGonagall, 
slamming a fist onto her desk so that her tartan 
biscuit tin slid sideways off it and burst open, littering 
the floor with Ginger Newts. 몮He몭d just lost, hadn몭t he, 

| 529Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




of course he wanted to provoke you! But what on 
earth he can have said that justified what you two 멪 몯 

몮He insulted my parents,몯 snarled George. 몮And 
Harry몭s mother.몯 

몮But instead of leaving it to Madam Hooch to sort out, 
you two decided to give an exhibition of Muggle 
dueling, did you?몯 bellowed Professor McGonagall. 
몮Have you any idea what you몭ve 멪 ?몯 

몮Hem, hem.몯 

George and Harry both spun around. Dolores 
Umbridge was standing in the doorway wrapped in a 
green tweed cloak that greatly enhanced her 
resemblance to a giant toad, and smiling in the 
horribly sickly, ominous way that Harry had come to 
associate with imminent misery. 

몮May I help, Professor McGonagall?몯 asked Professor 
Umbridge in her most poisonously sweet voice. 

Blood rushed into Professor McGonagall몭s face. 

몮Help?몯 she repeated in a constricted voice. 몮What do 
you mean, 몬help몭?몯 

Professor Umbridge moved forward into the office, still 
smiling her sickly smile. 

몮Why, I thought you might be grateful for a little extra 
authority.몯 

Harry would not have been surprised to see sparks fly 
from Professor McGonagall몭s nostrils. 

몮You thought wrong,몯 she said, turning her back on 
Umbridge. 몮Now, you two had better listen closely. I 

| 530Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




do not care what provocation Malfoy offered you, I do 
not care if he insulted every family member you 
possess, your behavior was disgusting and I am 
giving each of you a week몭s worth of detention! Do not 
look at me like that, Potter, you deserve it! And if 
either of you ever 멪 몯 

몮Hem, hem.몯 

Professor McGonagall closed her eyes as though 
praying for patience as she turned her face toward 
Professor Umbridge again. 

몮 Yes?몯 

몮I think they deserve rather more than detentions,몯 
said Umbridge, smiling still more broadly. 

Professor McGonagall몭s eyes flew open. 몮But 
unfortunately,몯 she said, with an attempt at a 
reciprocal smile that made her look as though she 
had lockjaw, 몮it is what I think that counts, as they 
are in my House, Dolores.몯 

몮Well, actually, Minerva,몯 simpered Umbridge, 몮I think 
you몭ll find that what I think does count. Now, where 
is it? Cornelius just sent it... I mean,몯 she gave a little 
false laugh as she rummaged in her handbag, 몮the 
Minister just sent it... Ah yes ...몯 

She had pulled out a piece of parchment that she now 
unfurled, clearing her throat fussily before starting to 
read what it said. 

몮Hem, hem ... 몬Educational Decree Number Twenty- 
five ...몭몯 

몮Not another one!몯 exclaimed Professor McGonagall 
violently. 

| 531Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Well, yes,몯 said Umbridge, still smiling. 몮As a matter 
of fact, Minerva, it was you who made me see that we 
needed a further amendment... You remember how 
you overrode me, when I was unwilling to allow the 
Gryffindor Quidditch team to re-form? How you took 
the case to Dumbledore, who insisted that the team 
be allowed to play? Well, now, I couldn몭t have that. I 
contacted the Minister at once, and he quite agreed 
with me that the High Inquisitor has to have the 
power to strip pupils of privileges, or she 멪 that is to 
say, I 멪 would have less authority than common 
teachers! And you see now, don몭t you, Minerva, how 
right I was in attempting to stop the Gryffindor team 
re-forming? Dreadful tempers . . . Anyway, I was 
reading out our amendment ... hem, hem ... The High 
Inquisitor will henceforth have supreme authority 
over all punishments, sanctions, and removal of 
privileges pertaining to the students of Hogwarts, and 
the power to alter such punishments, sanctions, and 
removals of privileges as may have been ordered by 
other staff members. Signed, Cornelius Fudge, 
Minister of Magic, Order of Merlin First Class, etc., 
etc...몭몯 

She rolled up the parchment and put it back into her 
handbag, still smiling. 

몮So ... I really think I will have to ban these two from 
playing Quidditch ever again,몯 she said, looking from 
Harry to George and back again. 

Harry felt the Snitch fluttering madly in his hand. 

몮Ban us?몯 he said, and his voice sounded strangely 
distant. 몮From playing ... ever again?몯 

몮Yes, Mr. Potter, I think a lifelong ban ought to do the 
trick,몯 said Umbridge, her smile widening still further 
as she watched him struggle to comprehend what she 

| 532Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




had said. 몮You and Mr. Weasley here. And I think, to 
be safe, this young man몭s twin ought to be stopped 
too 멪 if his teammates had not restrained him, I feel 
sure he would have attacked young Mr. Malfoy as 
well. I will want their broomsticks confiscated, of 
course; I shall keep them safely in my office, to make 
sure there is no infringement of my ban. But I am not 
unreasonable, Professor McGonagall,몯 she continued, 
turning back to Professor McGonagall who was now 
standing as still as though carved from ice, staring at 
her. 몮The rest of the team can continue playing, I saw 
no signs of violence from any of them. Well ... good 
afternoon to you.몯 And with a look of the utmost 
satisfaction Umbridge left the room, leaving a 
horrified silence in her wake. 

몮Banned,몯 said Angelina in a hollow voice, late that 
evening in the common room. 몮 Banned . No Seeker 
and no Beaters . . . What on earth are we going to do?몯 

It did not feel as though they had won the match at 
all. Everywhere Harry looked there were disconsolate 
and angry faces; the team themselves were slumped 
around the fire, all apart from Ron, who had not been 
seen since the end of the match. 

몮It몭s just so unfair,몯 said Alicia numbly. 몮I mean, what 
about Crabbe and that Bludger he hit after the 
whistle had been blown? Has she banned him?몯 

몮No,몯 said Ginny miserably; she and Hermione were 
sitting on either side of Harry. 몮He just got lines, I 
heard Montague laughing about it at dinner.몯 

몮And banning Fred when he didn몭t even do anything!몯 
said Alicia furiously, pummeling her knee with her 
fist. 



| 533Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮It몭s not my fault I didn몭t,몯 said Fred, with a very ugly 
look on his face. 몮I would몭ve pounded the little 
scumbag to a pulp if you three hadn몭t been holding 
me back.몯 

Harry stared miserably at the dark window. Snow was 
falling. The Snitch he had caught earlier was now 
zooming around and around the common room; 
people were watching its progress as though 
hypnotized and Crookshanks was leaping from chair 
to chair, trying to catch it. 

몮I몭m going to bed,몯 said Angelina, getting slowly to her 
feet. 

몮Maybe this will all turn out to have been a bad 
dream... Maybe I몭ll wake up tomorrow and find we 
haven몭t played yet...몯 

She was soon followed by Alicia and Katie. Fred and 
George sloped off to bed some time later, glowering at 
everyone they passed, and Ginny went not long after 
that. Only Harry and Hermione were left beside the 
fire. 

몮Have you seen Ron?몯 Hermione asked in a low voice. 
Harry shook his head. 

몮I think he몭s avoiding us,몯 said Hermione. 몮Where do 
you think he 멪 ?몯 

But at that precise moment, there was a creaking 
sound behind them as the Fat Lady swung forward 
and Ron came clambering through the portrait hole. 
He was very pale indeed and there was snow in his 
hair. When he saw Harry and Hermione he stopped 
dead in his tracks. 



| 534Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Where have you been?몯 said Hermione anxiously, 
springing up. 



몮Walking,몯 Ron mumbled. He was still wearing his 
Quidditch things. 

몮You look frozen,몯 said Hermione. 몮Come and sit 
down!몯 

Ron walked to the fireside and sank into the chair 
farthest from Harry몭s, not looking at him. The stolen 
Snitch zoomed over their heads. 

몮I몭m sorry,몯 Ron mumbled, looking at his feet. 

몮What for?몯 said Harry. 

몮For thinking I can play Quidditch,몯 said Ron. 몮I몭m 
going to resign first thing tomorrow.몯 

몮If you resign,몯 said Harry testily, 몮there몭ll only be 
three players left on the team.몯 And when Ron looked 
puzzled, he said, 몮I몭ve been given a lifetime ban. So몭ve 
Fred and George.몯 

몮What?몯 Ron yelped. 

Hermione told him the full story; Harry could not bear 
to tell it again. When she had finished, Ron looked 
more anguished than ever. 

몮This is all my fault 멪 몯 

몮You didn몭t make me punch Malfoy,몯 said Harry 
angrily. 

몮 멪 if I wasn몭t so lousy at Quidditch 멪 몯 

몮 멪 it몭s got nothing to do with that 멪 몯 

| 535Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮 멪 it was that song that wound me up 멪 몯 

몮 멪 it would몭ve wound anyone up 멪 몯 

Hermione got up and walked to the window, away 
from the argument, watching the snow swirling down 
against the pane. 

몮Look, drop it, will you!몯 Harry burst out. 몮It몭s bad 
enough without you blaming yourself for everything!몯 

Ron said nothing but sat gazing miserably at the 
damp hem of his robes. After a while he said in a dull 
voice, 몮This is the worst I몭ve ever felt in my life.몯 

몮Join the club,몯 said Harry bitterly. 

몮Well,몯 said Hermione, her voice trembling slightly. 몮I 
can think of one thing that might cheer you both up.몯 

몮Oh yeah?몯 said Harry skeptically. 

몮Yeah,몯 said Hermione, turning away from the pitch- 
black, snow-flecked window, a broad smile spreading 
across her face. 몮Hagrid몭s back.몯 



| 536Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 





HAGRID몭S TALE 

Harry sprinted up to the boys몭 dormitory to fetch the 
Invisibility Cloak and the Marauder몭s Map from his 
trunk; he was so quick that he and Ron were ready to 
leave at least five minutes before Hermione hurried 
back down from the girls몭 dormitories, wearing scarf, 
gloves, and one of her own knobbly elf hats. 

몮Well, it몭s cold out there!몯 she said defensively, as Ron 
clicked his tongue impatiently. 

They crept through the portrait hole and covered 
themselves hastily in the cloak 멪 Ron had grown so 
much he now needed to crouch to prevent his feet 
showing 멪 then, moving slowly and cautiously, they 
proceeded down the many staircases, pausing at 
intervals to check the map for signs of Filch or Mrs. 
Norris. They were lucky; they saw nobody but Nearly 
Headless Nick, who was gliding along absentmindedly 
humming something that sounded horribly like 
몮Weasley Is Our King.몯 They crept across the entrance 
hall and then out into the silent, snowy grounds. 

With a great leap of his heart, Harry saw little golden 
squares of light ahead and smoke coiling up from 

| 537Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



Hagrid몭s chimney. He set off at a quick march, the 
other two jostling and bumping along behind him, 
and they crunched excitedly through the thickening 
snow until at last they reached the wooden front door; 
when Harry raised his fist and knocked three times, a 
dog started barking frantically inside. 

몮Hagrid, it몭s us!몯 Harry called through the keyhole. 

몮Shoulda known!몯 said a gruff voice. 

They beamed at one another under the cloak; they 
could tell that Hagrid몭s voice was pleased. 몮Bin home 
three seconds ... Out the way, Fang ... Out the way, 
yeh dozy dog ...몯 

The bolt was drawn back, the door creaked open, and 
Hagrid몭s head appeared in the gap. 

Hermione screamed. 

몮Merlin몭s beard, keep it down!몯 said Hagrid hastily, 
staring wildly over their heads. 몮Under that cloak, are 
yeh? Well, get in, get in!몯 

몮I몭m sorry!몯 Hermione gasped, as the three of them 
squeezed past Hagrid into the house and pulled the 
cloak off themselves so he could see them. 몮I just 멪 
oh, Hagrid).몯 

몮It몭s nuthin몭, it몭s nuthin몭!몯 said Hagrid hastily, 
shutting the door behind them and hurrying to close 
all the curtains, but Hermione continued to gaze up 
at him in horror. 

Hagrid몭s hair was matted with congealed blood, and 
his left eye had been reduced to a puffy slit amid a 
mass of purple-and-black bruises. There were many 
cuts on his face and hands, some of them still 

| 538Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




bleeding, and he was moving gingerly, which made 
Harry suspect broken ribs. It was obvious that he had 
only just got home; a thick black traveling cloak lay 
over the back of a chair and a haversack large enough 
to carry several small children leaned against the wall 
inside the door. Hagrid himself, twice the size of a 
normal man and three times as broad, was now 
limping over to the fire and placing a copper kettle 
over it. 

몮What happened to you?몯 Harry demanded, while 
Fang danced around them all, trying to lick their 
faces. 

몮Told yeh, nuthin said Hagrid firmly. 몮Want a 
cuppa?몯 

몮Come off it,몯 said Ron, 몮you몭re in a right state!몯 

몮I몭m tellin몭yeh, I몭m fine,몯 said Hagrid, straightening 
up and turning to beam at them all, but wincing. 
몮Blimey, it몭s good ter see you three again 멪 had good 
summers, did yeh?몯 

몮Hagrid, you몭ve been attacked!몯 said Ron. 

몮Fer the las몭 time, it몭s nuthin몭!몯 said Hagrid firmly. 

몮Would you say it was nothing if one of us turned up 
with a pound of mince instead of a face?몯 Ron 
demanded. 

몮You ought to go and see Madam Pomfrey, Hagrid,몯 
said Hermione anxiously. 몮Some of those cuts look 
nasty.몯 

몮I몭m dealin몭 with it, all righ몭?몯 said Hagrid repressively. 



| 539Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He walked across to the enormous wooden table that 
stood in the middle of his cabin and twitched aside a 
tea towel that had been lying on it. Underneath was a 
raw, bloody, green-tinged steak slightly larger than 
the average car tire. 

몮You몭re not going to eat that, are you, Hagrid?몯 said 
Ron, leaning in for a closer look. 몮It looks poisonous.몯 

몮It몭s s 몭posed ter look like that, it몭s dragon meat,몯 
Hagrid said. 몮An몭 I didn몭 get it ter eat.몯 

He picked up the steak and slapped it over the left 
side of his face. Greenish blood trickled down into his 
beard as he gave a soft moan of satisfaction. 

몮Tha몭s better. It helps with the stingin몭, yeh know.몯 

몮So are you going to tell us what몭s happened to you?몯 
Harry asked. 

몮Can몭, Harry. Top secret. More몭n me job몭s worth ter 
tell yeh that.몯 

몮Did the giants beat you up, Hagrid?몯 asked Hermione 
quietly. 

Hagrid몭s fingers slipped on the dragon steak, and it 
slid squelchily onto his chest. 

몮Giants?몯 said Hagrid, catching the steak before it 
reached his belt and slapping it back over his face. 
몮Who said anythin몭 abou몭 giants? Who yeh bin talkin몭 
to? Who몭s told yeh what I몭ve 멪 who몭s said I몭ve bin 멪 
eh?몯 

몮We guessed,몯 said Hermione apologetically. 



| 540Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Oh, yeh did, did yeh?몯 said Hagrid, fixing her sternly 
with the eye that was not hidden by the steak. 

몮It was kind of ... obvious,몯 said Ron. Harry nodded. 

Hagrid glared at them, then snorted, threw the steak 
onto the table again and strode back to the kettle, 
which was now whistling. 

몮Never known kids like you three fer knowin몭 more몭n 
yeh oughta,몯 he muttered, splashing boiling water 
into three of his bucket-shaped mugs. 몮An몭 I몭m not 
complimentin몭 yeh, neither. Nosy, some몭d call it. 
Interferin몭.몯 

But his beard twitched. 

몮So you have been to look for giants?몯 said Harry, 
grinning as he sat down at the table. 

Hagrid set tea in front of each of them, sat down, 
picked up his steak again, and slapped it back over 
his face. 

몮Yeah, all righ몭,몯 he grunted, 몮I have.몯 

몮And you found them?몯 said Hermione in a hushed 
voice. 

몮Well, they몭re not that difficult ter find, ter be honest,몯 
said Hagrid. 몮Pretty big, see.몯 

몮Where are they?몯 said Ron. 

몮Mountains,몯 said Hagrid unhelpfully. 

몮So why don몭t Muggles 멪 ?몯 



| 541Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮They do,몯 said Hagrid darkly. 몮O몭ny their deaths are 
always put down ter mountaineerin몭 accidents, aren몭 
they?몯 

He adjusted the steak a little so that it covered the 
worst of the bruising. 

몮Come on, Hagrid, tell us what you몭ve been up to!몯 
said Ron. 몮Tell us about being attacked by the giants 
and Harry can tell you about being attacked by the 
dementors 멪 몯 

Hagrid choked in his mug and dropped his steak at 
the same time; a large quantity of spit, tea, and 
dragon blood was sprayed over the table as Hagrid 
coughed and spluttered and the steak slid, with a soft 
splat, onto the floor. 

몮Whadda yeh mean, attacked by dementors?몯 growled 
Hagrid. 

몮Didn몭t you know?몯 Hermione asked him, wide-eyed. 

몮I don몭 know anything that몭s been happenin몭 since I 
left. I was on a secret mission, wasn몭 I, didn몭 wan몭 
owls followin몭 me all over the place 멪 ruddy 
dementors! Yeh몭re not serious?몯 

몮Yeah, I am, they turned up in Little Whinging and 
attacked my cousin and me, and then the Ministry of 
Magic expelled me 멪 몯 

몮WHAT?몯 

몮 멪 and I had to go to a hearing and everything, but 
tell us about the giants first.몯 

몮You were expelled?몯 



| 542Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Tell us about your summer and I몭ll tell you about 
mine.몯 

Hagrid glared at him through his one open eye. Harry 
looked right back, an expression of innocent 
determination on his face. 

몮Oh, all righ몭,몯 Hagrid said in a resigned voice. 

He bent down and tugged the dragon steak out of 
Fang몭s mouth. 

몮Oh, Hagrid, don몭t, it몭s not hygien 멪 몯 Hermione 
began, but Hagrid had already slapped the meat back 
over his swollen eye. He took another fortifying gulp of 
tea and then said, 몮Well, we set off righ몭 after term 
ended 멪 몯 

몮Madame Maxime went with you, then?몯 Hermione 
interjected. 

몮Yeah, tha몭s right,몯 said Hagrid, and a softened 
expression appeared on the few inches of face that 
were not obscured by beard or green steak. 몮Yeah, it 
was jus몭 the pair of us. An몭 I몭ll tell yeh this, she몭s not 
afraid of roughin몭 it, Olympe. Yeh know, she몭s a fine, 
well-dressed woman, an몭 knowin몭 where we was goin몭 I 
wondered 몭ow she몭d feel abou몭 clamberin몭 over 
boulders an몭 sleepin몭 in caves an몭 tha몭, bu몭 she never 
complained once.몯 

몮You knew where you were going?몯 Harry asked. 몮You 
knew where the giants were?몯 

몮Well, Dumbledore knew, an몭 he told us,몯 said Hagrid. 

몮Are they hidden?몯 asked Ron. 몮Is it a secret, where 
they are?몯 



| 543Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Not really,몯 said Hagrid, shaking his shaggy head. 

몮It몭s jus몭 that mos몭 wizards aren몭 bothered where they 
are, s몭 long as it몭s a good long way away. But where 
they are몭s very difficult ter get ter, fer humans 
anyway, so we needed Dumbledore몭s instructions. 
Took us abou몭 a month ter get there 멪 몯 

몮A month?몯 said Ron, as though he had never heard of 
a journey lasting such a ridiculously long time. 몮But 
멪 why couldn몭t you just grab a Portkey or 
something?몯 

There was an odd expression in Hagrid몭s unobscured 
eye as he squinted at Ron; it was almost pitying. 

몮We몭re bein몭 watched, Ron,몯 he said gruffly. 

몮What d몭you mean?몯 

몮Yeh don몭 understand,몯 said Hagrid. 몮The Ministry몭s 
keepin몭 an eye on Dumbledore an몭 anyone they 
reckon몭s in league with him, an몭 멪 몯 

몮We know about that,몯 said Harry quickly, keen to 
hear the rest of Hagrid몭s story. 몮We know about the 
Ministry watching Dumbledore 멪 몯 

몮So you couldn몭t use magic to get there?몯 asked Ron, 
looking thunderstruck. 몮You had to act like Muggles 
all the way?몯 

몮Well, not exactly all the way,몯 said Hagrid cagily. 몮We 
jus몭 had ter be careful, 몭cause Olympe an몭 me, we 
stick out a bit 멪 몯 

Ron made a stifled noise somewhere between a snort 
and a sniff and hastily took a gulp of tea. 



| 544Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮 멪 so we몭re not hard ter follow. We was pretendin몭 we 
was goin몭 on holiday together, so we got inter France 
an몭 we made like we was headin몭 fer where Olympe몭s 
school is, 몭cause we knew we was bein몭 tailed by 
someone from the Ministry. We had to go slow, 몭cause 
I몭m not really s 몭posed ter use magic an몭 we knew the 
Ministry몭d be lookin몭 fer a reason ter run us in. But 
we managed ter give the berk tailin몭 us the slip round 
abou몭 Dee-John 멪 몯 

몮Ooooh, Dijon?몯 said Hermione excitedly. 몮I몭ve been 
there on holiday, did you see 멪 ?몯 

She fell silent at the look on Ron몭s face. 

몮We chanced a bit o몭 magic after that, and it wasn몭 a 
bad journey. Ran inter a couple o몭 mad trolls on the 
Polish border, an몭 I had a sligh몭 disagreement with a 
vampire in a pub in Minsk, but apart from tha몭, 
couldn몭t몭a bin smoother. 

몮An몭 then we reached the place, an몭 we started 
trekkin몭 up through the mountains, lookin몭 fer signs 
of 몭em . . . 

몮We had ter lay off the magic once we got near 몭em. 
Partly 몭cause they don몭 like wizards an몭 we didn몭 want 
ter put their backs up too soon, and partly 몭cause 
Dumbledore had warned us You-Know-Who was 
bound ter be after the giants an몭 all. Said it was odds 
on he몭d sent a messenger off ter them already. Told us 
ter be very careful of drawin몭 attention ter ourselves 
as we got nearer in case there was Death Eaters 
around.몯 

Hagrid paused for a long draft of tea. 

몮Go on!몯 said Harry urgently. 



| 545Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Found 몭em,몯 said Hagrid baldly. 몮Went over a ridge 
one nigh몭 an몭 there they was, spread ou몭 underneath 
us. Little fires burnin몭 below an몭 huge shadows ... It 
was like watchin몭 bits o몭 the mountain movin몭.몯 

몮How big are they?몯 asked Ron in a hushed voice. 

몮 T3out twenty feet,몯 said Hagrid casually. 몮Some o몭 
the bigger ones mighta bin twenty-five.몯 

몮And how many were there?몯 asked Harry. 

몮I reckon abou몭 seventy or eighty,몯 said Hagrid. 

몮Is that all?몯 said Hermione. 

몮Yep,몯 said Hagrid sadly, 몮eighty left, an몭 there was 
loads once, musta bin a hundred diff몭rent tribes from 
all over the world. But they몭ve bin dyin몭 out fer ages. 
Wizards killed a few, o몭 course, but mostly they killed 
each other, an몭 now they몭re dyin몭 out faster than ever. 
They몭re not made ter live bunched up together like 
tha몭. Dumbledore says it몭s our fault, it was the 
wizards who forced 몭em to go an몭 made 몭em live a good 
long way from us an몭 they had no choice but ter stick 
together fer their own protection.몯 

몮So,몯 said Harry, 몮you saw them and then what?몯 

몮Well, we waited till morning, didn몭 want ter go 
sneakin몭 up on 몭em in the dark, fer our own safety,몯 
said Hagrid. 몮 몭Bout three in the mornin몭 they fell 
asleep jus몭 where they was sittin몭. We didn몭 dare sleep. 
Fer one thing, we wanted ter make sure none of 몭em 
woke up an몭 came up where we were, an몭 fer another, 
the snorin몭 was unbelievable. Caused an avalanche 
near mornin몭. 

몮Anyway, once it was light we wen몭 down ter see 몭em.몯 

| 546Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Just like that?몯 said Ron, looking awestruck. 몮You 
just walked right into a giant camp?몯 

몮Well, Dumbledore몭d told us how ter do it,몯 said 
Hagrid. 몮Give the Gurg gifts, show some respect, yeh 
know.몯 

몮Give the what gifts?몯 asked Harry. 

몮Oh, the Gurg 멪 means the chief.몯 

몮How could you tell which one was the Gurg?몯 asked 
Ron. 

Hagrid grunted in amusement. 

몮No problem,몯 he said. 몮He was the biggest, the 
ugliest, an몭 the laziest. Sittin몭 there waitin몭 ter be 
brought food by the others. Dead goats an몭 such like. 
Name o몭 Karkus. I몭d put him at twenty-two, twenty- 
three feet, an몭 the weight of a couple o몭 bull elephants. 
Skin like rhino hide an몭 all.몯 

몮And you just walked up to him?몯 said Hermione 
breathlessly. 

몮Well ... down ter him, where he was lyin몭 in the 
valley. They was in this dip between four pretty high 
mountains, see, beside a mountain lake, an몭 Karkus 
was lyin몭 by the lake roarin몭 at the others ter feed him 
an몭 his wife. Olympe an몭 I went down the 
mountainside 멪 몯 

몮But didn몭t they try and kill you when they saw you?몯 
asked Ron incredulously. 

몮It was def몭nitely on some of their minds,몯 said 
Hagrid, shrugging, 몮but we did what Dumbledore told 
us ter do, which was ter hold our gift up high an몭 

| 547Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




keep our eyes on the Gurg an몭 ignore the others. So 
tha몭s what we did. An몭 the rest of 몭em went quiet an몭 
watched us pass an몭 we got right up ter Karkus몭s feet 
an몭 we bowed an몭 put our present down in front o몭 
him.몯 

몮What do you give a giant?몯 asked Ron eagerly. 

몮Food?몯 

몮Nah, he can get food all righ몭 fer himself,몯 said 
Hagrid. 몮We took him magic. Giants like magic, jus몭 
don몭t like us usin몭 it against 몭em. Anyway, that firs몭 
day we gave him a branch o몭 Gubraithian fire.몯 

Hermione said 몮wow몯 softly, but Harry and Ron both 
frowned in puzzlement. 

몮A branch of 멪 ?몯 

몮Everlasting fire,몯 said Hermione irritably, 몮you ought 
to know that by now, Professor Flitwick몭s mentioned it 
at least twice in class!몯 

몮Well anyway,몯 said Hagrid quickly, intervening before 
Ron could answer back, 몮Dumbledore몭d bewitched 
this branch to burn evermore, which isn몭 somethin몭 
any wizard could do, an몭 so I lies it down in the snow 
by Karkus몭s feet and says, 몬A gift to the Gurg of the 
giants from Albus Dumbledore, who sends his 
respectful greetings.몭 몯 

몮And what did Karkus say?몯 asked Harry eagerly. 
몮Nothin몭,몯 said Hagrid. 몮Didn몭 speak English.몯 

몮You몭re kidding!몯 

몮Didn몭 matter,몯 said Hagrid imperturbably, 
몮Dumbledore had warned us tha몭 migh몭 happen. 

| 548Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Karkus knew enough to yell fer a couple o몭 giants who 
knew our lingo an몭 they translated fer us.몯 



몮And did he like the present?몯 asked Ron. 

몮Oh yeah, it went down a storm once they understood 
what it was,몯 said Hagrid, turning his dragon steak 
over to press the cooler side to his swollen eye. 몮Very 
pleased. So then I said, Altars Dumbledore asks the 
Gurg to speak with his messenger when he returns 
tomorrow with another gift.몭 몯 

몮Why couldn몭t you speak to them that day?몯 asked 
Hermione. 

몮Dumbledore wanted us ter take it very slow,몯 said 
Hagrid. 몮Let 몭em see we kept our promises. We몭ll come 
back tomorrow with another present, an몭 then we do 
come back with another present 멪 gives a good 
impression, see? An몭 gives them time ter test out the 
firs몭 present an몭 find out it몭s a good one, an몭 get 몭em 
eager fer more. In any case, giants like Karkus 멪 
overload 몭em with information an몭 they몭ll kill yeh jus몭 
to simplify things. So we bowed outta the way an몭 
went off an몭 found ourselves a nice little cave ter 
spend that night in, an몭 the followin몭 mornin몭 we went 
back an몭 this time we found Karkus sittin몭 up waitin몭 
fer us lookin몭 all eager.몯 

몮And you talked to him?몯 

몮Oh yeah. Firs몭 we presented him with a nice battle 
helmet 멪 goblin-made an몭 indestructible, yeh know 멪 
an몭 then we sat down an몭 we talked.몯 

몮What did he say?몯 

몮Not much,몯 said Hagrid. 몮Listened mostly. But there 
were good signs. He몭d heard o몭 Dumbledore, heard 

| 549Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




he몭d argued against the killin몭 of the last giants in 
Britain. Karkus seemed ter be quite int몭rested in what 
Dumbledore had ter say. An몭 a few o몭 the others, 
몭specially the ones who had some English, they 
gathered round an몭 listened too. We were hopeful 
when we left that day. Promised ter come back next 
day with another present. 

몮But that night it all wen몭 wrong.몯 

몮What d몭you mean?몯 said Ron quickly. 

몮Well, like I say, they몭re not meant ter live together, 
giants,몯 said Hagrid sadly. 몮Not in big groups like 
that. They can몭 help themselves, they half kill each 
other every few weeks. The men fight each other an몭 
the women fight each other, the remnants of the old 
tribes fight each other, an몭 that몭s even without 
squabbles over food an몭 the best fires an몭 sleepin몭 
spots. Yeh몭d think, seein몭 as how their whole race is 
abou몭 finished, they몭d lay off each other, but ...몯 

Hagrid sighed deeply 

몮That night a fight broke out, we saw it from the 
mouth of our cave, lookin몭 down on the valley. Went 
on fer hours, yeh wouldn몭 believe the noise. An몭 when 
the sun came up the snow was scarlet an몭 his head 
was lyin몭 at the bottom o몭 the lake.몯 

몮Whose head?몯 gasped Hermione. 

몮Karkus몭s,몯 said Hagrid heavily. 몮There was a new 
Gurg, Golgomath.몯 He sighed deeply. 몮Well, we hadn몭 
bargained on a new Gurg two days after we몭d made 
friendly contact with the firs몭 one, an몭 we had a funny 
feelin몭 Golgomath wouldn몭 be so keen ter listen to us, 
but we had ter try.몯 



| 550Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮You went to speak to him?몯 asked Ron incredulously. 
몮After you몭d watched him rip off another giant몭s 
head?몯 

몮 몭Course we did,몯 said Hagrid, 몮we hadn몭 gone all that 
way ter give up after two days! We wen몭 down with the 
next present we몭d meant ter give ter Karkus. 

몮I knew it was no go before I몭d opened me mouth. He 
was sitting there wearin몭 Karkus 몭s helmet, leerin몭 at 
us as we got nearer. He몭s massive, one o몭 the biggest 
ones there. Black hair an몭 matchin몭 teeth an몭 a 
necklace o몭 bones. Human-lookin몭 bones, some of 몭em. 
Well, I gave it a go 멪 held out a great roll o몭 dragon 
skin 멪 an몭 said A gift fer the Gurg of the giants 멪 몭 
Nex몭 thing I knew, I was hangin몭 upside down in the 
air by me feet, two of his mates had grabbed me.몯 

Hermione clapped her hands to her mouth. 

몮How did you get out of that?몯 asked Harry. 

몮Wouldn몭ta done if Olympe hadn몭 bin there,몯 said 
Hagrid. 몮She pulled out her wand an몭 did some o몭 the 
fastes몭 spellwork I몭ve ever seen. Ruddy marvelous. Hit 
the two holdin몭 me right in the eyes with 
Conjunctivitus Curses an몭 they dropped me 
straightaway 멪 bu몭 we were in trouble then, 몭cause 
we몭d used magic against 몭em, an몭 that몭s what giants 
hate abou몭 wizards. We had ter leg it an몭 we knew 
there was no way we was going ter be able ter march 
inter camp again.몯 

몮Blimey, Hagrid,몯 said Ron quietly. 

몮So how come it몭s taken you so long to get home if you 
were only there for three days?몯 asked Hermione. 



| 551Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮We didn몭 leave after three days!몯 said Hagrid, looking 
outraged. 몮Dumbledore was relyin몭 on us!몯 



몮But you몭ve just said there was no way you could go 
back!몯 

몮Not by daylight, we couldn몭, no. We just had ter 
rethink a bit. Spent a couple o몭 days lyin몭 low up in 
the cave an몭 watchin몭. An몭 wha몭 we saw wasn몭 good.몯 

몮Did he rip off more heads?몯 asked Hermione, 
sounding squeamish. 

몮No,몯 said Hagrid. 몮I wish he had.몯 

몮What d몭you mean?몯 

몮I mean we soon found out he didn몭 object ter all 
wizards 멪 just us.몯 

몮Death Eaters?몯 said Harry quickly. 

몮Yep,몯 said Hagrid darkly. 몮Couple of 몭em were visitin몭 
him ev몭ry day, bringin몭 gifts ter the Gurg, an몭 he wasn몭 
dangling them upside down.몯 

몮How d몭you know they were Death Eaters?몯 said Ron. 

몮Because I recognized one of 몭em,몯 Hagrid growled. 
몮Macnair, remember him? Bloke they sent ter kill 
Buckbeak? Maniac, he is. Likes killin몭 as much as 
Golgomath, no wonder they were gettin몭 on so well.몯 

몮So Macnair몭s persuaded the giants to join You-Know- 
Who?몯 said Hermione desperately. 

몮Hold yer hippogriffs, I haven몭 finished me story yet!몯 
said Hagrid indignantly, who, considering he had not 
wanted to tell them anything in the first place, now 

| 552Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




seemed to be rather enjoying himself. 몮Me an몭 Olympe 
talked it over an몭 we agreed, jus몭 몭cause the Gurg 
looked like favorin몭 You-Know-Who didn몭 mean all of 
몭em would. We had ter try an몭 persuade some o몭 the 
others, the ones who hadn몭 wanted Golgomath as 
Gurg.몯 

몮How could you tell which ones they were?몯 asked 
Ron. 

몮Well, they were the ones bein몭 beaten to a pulp, 
weren몭 they?몯 said Hagrid patiently. 몮The ones with 
any sense were keepin몭 outta Golgomath 몭s way, hidin몭 
out in caves roun몭 the gully jus몭 like we were. So we 
decided we몭d go pokin몭 round the caves by night an몭 
see if we couldn몭 persuade a few o몭 them.몯 

몮You went poking around dark caves looking for 
giants?몯 said Ron with awed respect in his voice. 

몮Well, it wasn몭 the giants who worried us most,몯 said 
Hagrid. 몮We were more concerned abou몭 the Death 
Eaters. Dumbledore had told us before we wen몭 not 
ter tangle with 몭em if we could avoid it, an몭 the trouble 
was they knew we was around 멪 몭spect Golgomath 
told him abou몭 us. At night when the giants were 
sleepin몭 an몭 we wanted ter be creepin몭 inter the caves, 
Macnair an몭 the other one were sneakin몭 round the 
mountains lookin몭 fer us. I was hard put to stop 
Olympe jumpin몭 out at them,몯 said Hagrid, the 
corners of his mouth lifting his wild beard. 몮She was 
rarin몭 ter attack 몭em... she몭s somethin몭 when she몭s 
roused, Olympe... Fiery, yeh know ... 몭spect it몭s the 
French in her ...몯 

Hagrid gazed misty-eyed into the fire. Harry allowed 
him thirty seconds몭 reminiscence before clearing his 
throat loudly. 



| 553Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮So what happened? Did you ever get near any of the 
other giants?몯 

몮What? Oh ... oh yeah, we did. Yeah, on the third 
night after Karkus was killed, we crept outta the cave 
we몭d bin hidin몭 in and headed back down inter the 
gully, keepin몭 our eyes skinned fer the Death Eaters. 
Got inside a few o몭 the caves, no go 멪 then, in abou몭 
the sixth one, we found three giants hidin몭.몯 

몮Cave must몭ve been cramped,몯 said Ron. 

몮Wasn몭 room ter swing a kneazle,몯 said Hagrid. 

몮Didn몭t they attack you when they saw you?몯 asked 
Hermione. 

몮Probably woulda done if they몭d bin in any condition,몯 
said Hagrid, 몮but they was badly hurt, all three o몭 
them. Golgomath몭s lot had beaten 몭em unconscious; 
they몭d woken up an몭 crawled inter the nearest shelter 
they could find. Anyway, one o몭 them had a bit of 
English an몭 몭e translated fer the others, an몭 what we 
had ter say didn몭 seem ter go down too badly. So we 
kep몭 goin몭 back, visitin몭 the wounded... I reckon we 
had abou몭 six or seven o몭 them convinced at one 
poin몭.몯 

몮Six or seven?몯 said Ron eagerly. 몮Well that몭s not bad 
멪 are they going to come over here and start fighting 
You-Know-Who with us?몯 

But Hermione said, 몮What do you mean 몬at one point,몭 
Hagrid?몯 

Hagrid looked at her sadly. 



| 554Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Golgomath몭s lot raided the caves. The ones tha몭 
survived didn몭 wan몭 no more ter to do with us after 
that.몯 

몮So ... so there aren몭t any giants coming?몯 said Ron, 
looking disappointed. 

몮Nope,몯 said Hagrid, heaving a deep sigh as he turned 
over his steak again and applied the cooler side to his 
face, 몮but we did wha몭 we meant ter do, we gave 몭em 
Dumbledore몭s message an몭 some o몭 them heard it an몭 I 
몭spect some o몭 them몭ll remember it. Jus몭 maybe, them 
that don몭 want ter stay around Golgomath몭ll move 
outta the mountains, an몭 there몭s gotta be a chance 
they몭ll remember Dumbledore몭s friendly to 몭em... 

Could be they몭ll come ...몯 

Snow was filling up the window now. Harry became 
aware that the knees of his robes were soaked 
through; Fang was drooling with his head in Harry몭s 
lap. 

몮Hagrid?몯 said Hermione quietly after a while. 

몮Mmm?몯 

몮Did you ... was there any sign of ... did you hear 
anything about your . . . your . . . mother while you were 
there?몯 

Hagrid몭s unobscured eye rested upon her, and 
Hermione looked rather scared. 

몮I몭m sorry ... I ... forget it 멪 몯 

몮Dead,몯 Hagrid grunted. 몮Died years ago. They told 
me.몯 



| 555Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Oh ... I몭m ... I몭m really sorry,몯 said Hermione in a 
very small voice. 



Hagrid shrugged his massive shoulders. 몮No need,몯 he 
said shortly. 몮Can몭 remember her much. Wasn몭 a great 
mother.몯 

They were silent again. Hermione glanced nervously 
at Harry and Ron, plainly wanting them to speak. 

몮But you still haven몭t explained how you got in this 
state, Hagrid,몯 Ron said, gesturing toward Hagrid몭s 
bloodstained face. 

몮Or why you몭re back so late,몯 said Harry. 몮Sirius says 
Madame Maxime got back ages ago 멪 몯 

몮Who attacked you?몯 said Ron. 

몮I haven몭 bin attacked!몯 said Hagrid emphatically. 몮I 멪 



But the rest of his words were drowned in a sudden 
outbreak of rapping on the door. Hermione gasped; 
her mug slipped through her fingers and smashed on 
the floor; Fang yelped. All four of them stared at the 
window beside the doorway. The shadow of somebody 
small and squat rippled across the thin curtain. 

몮It몭s her\몯 Ron whispered. 

몮Get under here!몯 Harry said quickly; seizing the 
Invisibility Cloak he whirled it over himself and 
Hermione while Ron tore around the table and dived 
beneath the cloak as well. Huddled together they 
backed away into a corner. Fang was barking madly 
at the door. Hagrid looked thoroughly confused. 

몮Hagrid, hide our mugs!몯 

| 556Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Hagrid seized Harry몭s and Ron몭s mugs and shoved 
them under the cushion in Fang몭s basket. Fang was 
now leaping up at the door; Hagrid pushed him out of 
the way with his foot and pulled it open. 

Professor Umbridge was standing in the doorway 
wearing her green tweed cloak and a matching hat 
with earflaps. Lips pursed, she leaned back so as to 
see Hagrid몭s face; she barely reached his navel. 

몮So,몯 she said slowly and loudly, as though speaking 
to somebody deaf. 몮You몭re Hagrid, are you?몯 

Without waiting for an answer she strolled into the 
room, her bulging eyes rolling in every direction. 

몮Get away,몯 she snapped, waving her handbag at 
Fang, who had bounded up to her and was 
attempting to lick her face. 

몮Er 멪 I don몭 want ter be rude,몯 said Hagrid, staring at 
her, 몮but who the ruddy hell are you?몯 

몮My name is Dolores Umbridge.몯 

Her eyes were sweeping the cabin. Twice they stared 
directly into the corner where Harry stood, 
sandwiched between Ron and Hermione. 

몮Dolores Umbridge?몯 Hagrid said, sounding 
thoroughly confused. 몮I thought you were one o몭 them 
Ministry 멪 don몭 you work with Fudge?몯 

몮I was Senior Undersecretary to the Minister, yes,몯 
said Umbridge, now pacing around the cabin, taking 
in every tiny detail within, from the haversack against 
the wall to the abandoned traveling cloak. 몮I am now 
the Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher 멪 몯 



| 557Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Tha몭s brave of yeh,몯 said Hagrid, 몮there몭s not many몭d 
take tha몭 job anymore 멪 몯 

몮 멪 and Hogwarts High Inquisitor,몯 said Umbridge, 
giving no sign that she had heard him. 

몮Wha몭s that?몯 said Hagrid, frowning. 

몮Precisely what I was going to ask,몯 said Umbridge, 
pointing at the broken shards of china on the floor 
that had been Hermione몭s mug. 

몮Oh,몯 said Hagrid, with a most unhelpful glance 
toward the corner where Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
stood hidden, 몮oh, tha몭 was ... was Fang. He broke a 
mug. So I had ter use this one instead.몯 

Hagrid pointed to the mug from which he had been 
drinking, one hand still clamped over the dragon 
steak pressed to his eye. Umbridge stood facing him 
now, taking in every detail of his appearance instead 
of the cabin몭s. 

몮I heard voices,몯 she said quietly. 

몮I was talkin몭 ter Fang,몯 said Hagrid stoutly. 

몮And was he talking back to you?몯 

몮Well ... in a manner o몭 speakin몭,몯 said Hagrid, looking 
uncomfortable. 몮I sometimes say Fang몭s near enough 
human 멪 몯 

몮There are three sets of footprints in the snow leading 
from the castle doors to your cabin,몯 said Umbridge 
sleekly. 

Hermione gasped; Harry clapped a hand over her 
mouth. Luckily, Fang was sniffing loudly around the 

| 558Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




hem of Professor Umbridge몭s robes, and she did not 
appear to have heard. 

몮Well, I on몭y jus몭 got back,몯 said Hagrid, waving an 
enormous hand at the haversack. 몮Maybe someone 
came ter call earlier an몭 I missed em. 

몮There are no footsteps leading away from your cabin 
door.몯 

몮Well I ... I don몭 know why that몭d be...몯 said Hagrid, 
tugging nervously at his beard and again glancing 
toward the corner where Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
stood, as though asking for help. 몮Erm ...몯 

Umbridge wheeled around and strode the length of 
the cabin, looking around carefully. She bent and 
peered under the bed. She opened Hagrid 몭s 
cupboards. She passed within two inches of where 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione stood pressed against the 
wall; Harry actually pulled in his stomach as she 
walked by. After looking carefully inside the 
enormous cauldron Hagrid used for cooking she 
wheeled around again and said, 몮What has happened 
to you? How did you sustain those injuries?몯 

Hagrid hastily removed the dragon steak from his 
face, which in Harry몭s opinion was a mistake, because 
the black-and-purple bruising all around his eye was 
now clearly visible, not to mention the large amount 
of fresh and congealed blood on his face. 몮Oh, I ... had 
a bit of an accident,몯 he said lamely. 

몮What sort of accident?몯 

몮I-I tripped.몯 

몮You tripped,몯 she repeated coolly. 



| 559Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Yeah, tha몭s right. Over ... over a friends broomstick. I 
don몭 fly, meself. Well, look at the size o몭 me, I don몭 
reckon there몭s a broomstick that몭d hold me. Friend o몭 
mine breeds Abraxan horses, I dunno if you몭ve ever 
seen 몭em, big beasts, winged, yeh know, I몭ve had a bit 
of a ride on one o몭 them an몭 it was 멪 몯 

몮Where have you been?몯 asked Umbridge, cutting 
coolly through Hagrid몭s babbling. 

몮Where 몭ve I ... ?몯 

몮Been, yes,몯 she said. 몮Term started more than two 
months ago. Another teacher has had to cover your 
classes. None of your colleagues has been able to give 
me any information as to your whereabouts. You left 
no address. Where have you been?몯 

There was a pause in which Hagrid stared at her with 
his newly uncovered eye. Harry could almost hear his 
brain working furiously. 

몮I 멪 I몭ve been away for me health,몯 he said. 

몮For your health,몯 said Umbridge. Her eyes traveled 
over Hagrid몭s discolored and swollen face; dragon 
blood dripped gently onto his waistcoat in the silence. 
몮I see.몯 

몮Yeah,몯 said Hagrid, 몮bit o몭 멪 o몭 fresh air, yeh know 멪 



몮Yes, as gamekeeper fresh air must be so difficult to 
come by,몯 said Umbridge sweetly. The small patch of 
Hagrid몭s face that was not black or purple flushed. 

몮Well 멪 change o몭 scene, yeh know 멪 몯 

몮Mountain scenery?몯 said Umbridge swiftly. 

| 560Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




She knows, Harry thought desperately. 

몮Mountains?몯 Hagrid repeated, clearly thinking fast. 
몮Nope, South of France fer me. Bit o몭 sun an몭 ... an몭 
sea.몯 

몮Really?몯 said Umbridge. 몮You don몭t have much of a 
tan.몯 

몮Yeah ... well ... sensitive skin,몯 said Hagrid, 
attempting an ingratiating smile. Harry noticed that 
two of his teeth had been knocked out. Umbridge 
looked at him coldly; his smile faltered. Then she 
hoisted her handbag a little higher into the crook of 
her arm and said, 몮I shall, of course, be informing the 
Minister of your late return.몯 

몮Righ몭,몯 said Hagrid, nodding. 

몮You ought to know too that as High Inquisitor it is 
my unfortunate but necessary duty to inspect my 
fellow teachers. So I daresay we shall meet again soon 
enough.몯 

She turned sharply and marched back to the door. 

몮You몭re inspectin몭 us?몯 Hagrid echoed blankly, looking 
after her. 

몮Oh yes,몯 said Umbridge softly, looking back at him 
with her hand on the door handle. 몮The Ministry is 
determined to weed out unsatisfactory teachers, 
Hagrid. Good night.몯 

She left, closing the door behind her with a snap. 
Harry made to pull off the Invisibility Cloak but 
Hermione seized his wrist. 



| 561Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Not yet,몯 she breathed in his ear. 몮She might not be 
gone yet.몯 

Hagrid seemed to be thinking the same way; he 
stumped across the room and pulled back the curtain 
an inch or so. 

몮She몭s goin몭 back ter the castle,몯 he said in a low 
voice. 몮Blimey ... inspectin몭 people, is she?몯 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry, pulling the cloak off. 몮Trelawney몭s 
on probation already...몯 

몮Um ... what sort of thing are you planning to do with 
us in class, Hagrid?몯 asked Hermione. 

몮Oh, don몭 you worry abou몭 that, I몭ve got a great load o몭 
lessons planned,몯 said Hagrid enthusiastically, 
scooping up his dragon steak from the table and 
slapping it over his eye again. 몮I몭ve bin keepin몭 a 
couple o몭 creatures saved fer yer O.W.L. year, you 
wait, they몭re somethin몭 really special.몯 

몮Erm . . . special in what way?몯 asked Hermione 
tentatively. 

몮I몭m not sayin몭,몯 said Hagrid happily. 몮I don몭 want ter 
spoil the surprise.몯 

몮Look, Hagrid,몯 said Hermione urgently, dropping all 
pretense, 몮Professor Umbridge won몭t be at all happy if 
you bring anything to class that몭s too dangerous 멪 몯 

몮Dangerous?몯 said Hagrid, looking genially bemused. 
몮Don몭 be silly, I wouldn몭 give yeh anythin몭 dangerous! I 
mean, all righ몭, they can look after themselves 멪 몯 

몮Hagrid, you몭ve got to pass Umbridge몭s inspection, 
and to do that it would really be better if she saw you 

| 562Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




teaching us how to look after porlocks, how to tell the 
difference between knarls and hedgehogs, stuff like 
that!몯 said Hermione earnestly. 

몮But tha몭s not very interestin몭, Hermione,몯 said 
Hagrid. 몮The stuff I몭ve got몭s much more impressive, 

I몭ve bin bringin몭 몭em on fer years, I reckon I몭ve got the 
on몭y domestic herd in Britain 멪 몯 

몮Hagrid ... please ...몯 said Hermione, a note of real 
desperation in her voice. 몮Umbridge is looking for any 
excuse to get rid of teachers she thinks are too close 
to Dumbledore. Please, Hagrid, teach us something 
dull that몭s bound to come up in our O.W.L...몯 

But Hagrid merely yawned widely and cast a one-eyed 
look of longing toward the vast bed in the corner. 

몮Lis몭en, it몭s bin a long day an몭 it몭s late,몯 he said, 
patting Hermione gently on the shoulder, so that her 
knees gave way and hit the floor with a thud. 몮Oh 멪 
sorry 멪 몯 He pulled her back up by the neck of her 
robes. 몮Look, don몭 you go worryin몭 abou몭 me, I promise 
yeh I몭ve got really good stuff planned fer yer lessons 
now I몭m back... Now you lot had better get back up to 
the castle, an몭 don몭 forget ter wipe yer footprints out 
behind yeh!몯 

몮I dunno if you got through to him,몯 said Ron a short 
while later when, having checked that the coast was 
clear, they walked back up to the castle through the 
thickening snow, leaving no trace behind them due to 
the Obliteration Charm Hermione was performing as 
they went. 

몮Then I몭ll go back again tomorrow,몯 said Hermione 
determinedly. 몮I몭ll plan his lessons for him if I have to. 
I don몭t care if she throws out Trelawney but she몭s not 
taking Hagrid!몯 

| 563Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






THE EYE OF THE SNAKE 

Hermione plowed her way back to Hagrid몭s cabin 
through two feet of snow on Sunday morning. Harry 
and Ron wanted to go with her, but their mountain of 
homework had reached an alarming height again, so 
they grudgingly remained in the common room, trying 
to ignore the gleeful shouts drifting up from the 
grounds outside, where students were enjoying 
themselves skating on the frozen lake, tobogganing, 
and worst of all, bewitching snowballs to zoom up to 
Gryffindor Tower and rap hard on the windows. 

몮Oy!몯 bellowed Ron, finally losing patience and 
sticking his head out of the window, 몮I am a prefect 
and if one more snowball hits this window 멪 OUCH!몯 

He withdrew his head sharply, his face covered in 
snow. 

몮It몭s Fred and George,몯 he said bitterly, slamming the 
window behind him. 몮Gits ...몯 



| 564Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



Hermione returned from Hagrid몭s just before lunch, 
shivering slightly, her robes damp to the knees. 



몮So?몯 said Ron, looking up when she entered. 몮Got all 
his lessons planned for him?몯 

몮Well, I tried,몯 she said dully, sinking into a chair 
beside Harry. She pulled out her wand and gave it a 
complicated little wave so that hot air streamed out of 
the tip; she then pointed this at her robes, which 
began to steam as they dried out. 몮He wasn몭t even 
there when I arrived, I was knocking for at least half 
an hour. And then he came stumping out of the forest 



Harry groaned. The Forbidden Forest was teeming 
with the kind of creatures most likely to get Hagrid 
the sack. 몮What몭s he keeping in there? Did he say?몯 
asked Harry. 

몮No,몯 said Hermione miserably. 몮He says he wants 
them to be a surprise. I tried to explain about 
Umbridge, but he just doesn몭t get it. He kept saying 
nobody in their right mind would rather study knarls 
than chimaeras 멪 oh I don몭t think he몭s got a 
chimaera,몯 she added at the appalled look on Harry 
and Ron몭s faces, 몮but that몭s not for lack of trying from 
what he said about how hard it is to get eggs... I don몭t 
know how many times I told him he몭d be better off 
following Grubbly-Plank몭s plan, I honestly don몭t think 
he listened to half of what I said. He몭s in a bit of a 
funny mood, you know. He still won몭t say how he got 
all those injuries...몯 

Hagrid몭s reappearance at the staff table at breakfast 
next day was not greeted by enthusiasm from all 
students. Some, like Fred, George, and Lee, roared 
with delight and sprinted up the aisle between the 
Gryffindor and Hufflepuff tables to wring Hagrid몭s 
| 565Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




enormous hand; others, like Parvati and Lavender, 
exchanged gloomy looks and shook their heads. Harry 
knew that many of them preferred Professor Grubbly- 
Plank몭s lessons, and the worst of it was that a very 
small, unbiased part of him knew that they had good 
reason: Grubbly-Plank몭s idea of an interesting class 
was not one where there was a risk that somebody 
might have their head ripped off. 

It was with a certain amount of apprehension that 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione headed down to Hagrid몭s 
on Tuesday, heavily muffled against the cold. Harry 
was worried, not only about what Hagrid might have 
decided to teach them, but also about how the rest of 
the class, particularly Malfoy and his cronies, would 
behave if Umbridge was watching them. 

However, the High Inquisitor was nowhere to be seen 
as they struggled through the snow toward Hagrid, 
who stood waiting for them on the edge of the forest. 
He did not present a reassuring sight; the bruises 
that had been purple on Saturday night were now 
tinged with green and yellow and some of his cuts still 
seemed to be bleeding. Harry could not understand 
this: Had Hagrid perhaps been attacked by some 
creature whose venom prevented the wounds it 
inflicted from healing? As though to complete the 
ominous picture, Hagrid was carrying what looked 
like half a dead cow over his shoulder. 

몮We몭re workin몭 in here today!몯 Hagrid called happily to 
the approaching students, jerking his head back at 
the dark trees behind him. 몮Bit more sheltered! 
Anyway, they prefer the dark...몯 

몮What prefers the dark?몯 Harry heard Malfoy say 
sharply to Crabbe and Goyle, a trace of panic in his 
voice. 몮What did he say prefers the dark 멪 did you 
hear?몯 

| 566Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry remembered the only occasion on which Malfoy 
had entered the forest before now; he had not been 
very brave then either. He smiled to himself; after the 
Quidditch match anything that caused Malfoy 
discomfort was all right with him. 

몮Ready?몯 said Hagrid happily, looking around at the 
class. 몮Right, well, I몭ve bin savin몭 a trip inter the forest 
fer yer fifth year. Thought we몭d go an몭 see these 
creatures in their natural habitat. Now, what we몭re 
studyin몭 today is pretty rare, I reckon I몭m probably the 
on몭y person in Britain who몭s managed ter train 몭em 멪 몯 

몮And you몭re sure they몭re trained, are you?몯 said 
Malfoy, the panic in his voice even more pronounced 
now. 몮Only it wouldn몭t be the first time you몭d brought 
wild stuff to class, would it?몯 

The Slytherins murmured agreement and a few 
Gryffindors looked as though they thought Malfoy had 
a fair point too. 

몮 몭Course they몭re trained,몯 said Hagrid, scowling and 
hoisting the dead cow a little higher on his shoulder. 

몮So what happened to your face, then?몯 demanded 
Malfoy. 

몮Mind yer own business!몯 said Hagrid, angrily. 몮Now if 
yeh몭ve finished askin몭 stupid questions, follow me!몯 

He turned and strode straight into the forest. Nobody 
seemed much disposed to follow. Harry glanced at 
Ron and Hermione, who sighed but nodded, and the 
three of them set off after Hagrid, leading the rest of 
the class. 

They walked for about ten minutes until they reached 
a place where the trees stood so closely together that 

| 567Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




it was as dark as twilight and there was no snow on 
the ground at all. Hagrid deposited his half a cow with 
a grunt on the ground, stepped back, and turned to 
face his class again, most of whom were creeping 
toward him from tree to tree, peering around 
nervously as though expecting to be set upon at any 
moment. 

몮Gather roun몭, gather roun몭,몯 said Hagrid 
encouragingly. 몮Now, they몭ll be attracted by the smell 
o몭 the meat but I몭m goin몭 ter give 몭em a call anyway, 
몭cause they몭ll like ter know it몭s me...몯 

He turned, shook his shaggy head to get the hair out 
of his face, and gave an odd, shrieking cry that 
echoed through the dark trees like the call of some 
monstrous bird. Nobody laughed; most of them 
looked too scared to make a sound. 

Hagrid gave the shrieking cry again. A minute passed 
in which the class continued to peer nervously over 
their shoulders and around trees for a first glimpse of 
whatever it was that was coming. And then, as Hagrid 
shook his hair back for a third time and expanded his 
enormous chest, Harry nudged Ron and pointed into 
the black space between two gnarled yew trees. 

A pair of blank, white, shining eyes were growing 
larger through the gloom and a moment later the 
dragonish face, neck, and then skeletal body of a 
great, black, winged horse emerged from the 
darkness. It looked around at the class for a few 
seconds, swishing its long black tail, then bowed its 
head and began to tear flesh from the dead cow with 
its pointed fangs. 

A great wave of relief broke over Harry. Here at last 
was proof that he had not imagined these creatures, 
that they were real: Hagrid knew about them too. He 

| 568Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




looked eagerly at Ron, but Ron was still staring 
around into the trees and after a few seconds he 
whispered, 몮Why doesn몭t Hagrid call again?몯 

Most of the rest of the class were wearing expressions 
as confused and nervously expectant as Ron몭s and 
were still gazing everywhere but at the horse standing 
feet from them. There were only two other people who 
seemed to be able to see them: a stringy Slytherin boy 
standing just behind Goyle was watching the horse 
eating with an expression of great distaste on his face, 
and Neville, whose eyes were following the swishing 
progress of the long black tail. 

몮Oh, an몭 here comes another one!몯 said Hagrid 
proudly, as a second black horse appeared out of the 
dark trees, folded its leathery wings closer to its body, 
and dipped its head to gorge on the meat. 몮Now ... put 
yer hands up, who can see 몭em?몯 

Immensely pleased to feel that he was at last going to 
understand the mystery of these horses, Harry raised 
his hand. Hagrid nodded at him. 

몮Yeah ... yeah, I knew you몭d be able ter, Harry,몯 he 
said seriously. 몮An몭 you too, Neville, eh? An몭 멪 몯 

몮Excuse me,몯 said Malfoy in a sneering voice, 몮but 
what exactly are we supposed to be seeing?몯 

For answer, Hagrid pointed at the cow carcass on the 
ground. The whole class stared at it for a few seconds, 
then several people gasped and Parvati squealed. 
Harry understood why: Bits of flesh stripping 
themselves away from the bones and vanishing into 
thin air had to look very odd indeed. 



| 569Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮What몭s doing it?몯 Parvati demanded in a terrified 
voice, retreating behind the nearest tree. 몮What몭s 
eating it?몯 

몮Thestrals,몯 said Hagrid proudly and Hermione gave a 
soft 몮oh!몯 of comprehension at Harry몭s shoulder. 
몮Hogwarts has got a whole herd of 몭em in here. Now, 
who knows 멪 ?몯 

몮But they몭re really, really unlucky!몯 interrupted 
Parvati, looking alarmed. 몮They몭re supposed to bring 
all sorts of horrible misfortune on people who see 
them. Professor Trelawney told me once 멪 몯 

몮No, no, no,몯 said Hagrid, chuckling, 몮tha몭s jus몭 
superstition, that is, they aren몭 unlucky, they몭re dead 
clever an몭 useful! 몭Course, this lot don몭 get a lot o몭 
work, it몭s mainly jus몭 pullin몭 the school carriages 
unless Dumbledore몭s takin몭 a long journey an몭 don몭 
want ter Apparate 멪 an몭 here몭s another couple, look 



Two more horses came quietly out of the trees, one of 
them passing very close to Parvati, who shivered and 
pressed herself closer to the tree, saying, 몮I think I felt 
something, I think it몭s near me!몯 

몮Don몭 worry, it won몭 hurt yeh,몯 said Hagrid patiently. 
몮Righ몭, now, who can tell me why some o몭 you can see 
them an몭 some can몭t?몯 

Hermione raised her hand. 

몮Go on then,몯 said Hagrid, beaming at her. 

몮The only people who can see thestrals,몯 she said, 

몮are people who have seen death.몯 



| 570Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Tha몭s exactly right,몯 said Hagrid solemnly, 몮ten 
points ter Gryffindor. Now, thestrals 멪 몯 

몮Hem, hem.몯 

Professor Umbridge had arrived. She was standing a 
few feet away from Harry, wearing her green hat and 
cloak again, her clipboard at the ready. Hagrid, who 
had never heard Umbridge 몭s fake cough before, was 
gazing in some concern at the closest thestral, 
evidently under the impression that it had made the 
sound. 

몮Hem, hem.몯 

몮Oh hello!몯 Hagrid said, smiling, having located the 
source of the noise. 

몮You received the note I sent to your cabin this 
morning?몯 said Umbridge, in the same loud, slow 
voice she had used with him earlier, as though she 
was addressing somebody both foreign and very slow. 
몮Telling you that I would be inspecting your lesson?몯 

몮Oh yeah,몯 said Hagrid brightly. 몮Glad yeh found the 
place all righ몭! Well, as you can see 멪 or, I dunno 멪 
can you? We몭re doin몭 thestrals today 멪 몯 

몮I몭m sorry?몯 said Umbridge loudly, cupping her hand 
around her ear and frowning. 몮What did you say?몯 

Hagrid looked a little confused. 

몮Er 멪 thestralsl몯 he said loudly. 몮Big 멪 er 멪 winged 
horses, yeh know!몯 

He flapped his gigantic arms hopefully. Professor 
Umbridge raised her eyebrows at him and muttered 



| 571Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




as she made a note on her clipboard, 몮 몬has ... to ... 
resort ... to ... crude . . . sign . . . language 몯 

몮Well ... anyway ...몯 said Hagrid, turning back to the 
class and looking slightly flustered. 몮Erm ... what was 
I sayin몭?몯 

몮 몬Appears ... to ... have . . . poor . . . short . . . term . . . 
memory 몯 muttered Umbridge, loudly enough for 
everyone to hear her. Draco Malfoy looked as though 
Christmas had come a month early; Hermione, on the 
other hand, had turned scarlet with suppressed rage. 

몮Oh yeah,몯 said Hagrid, throwing an uneasy glance at 
Umbridge몭s clipboard, but plowing on valiantly. 몮Yeah, 
I was gonna tell yeh how come we got a herd. Yeah, 
so, we started off with a male an몭 five females. This 
one,몯 he patted the first horse to have appeared, 

몮name o몭 Tenebrus, he몭s my special favorite, firs몭 one 
born here in the forest 멪 몯 

몮Are you aware,몯 Umbridge said loudly, interrupting 
him, 몮that the Ministry of Magic has classified 
thestrals as 몬dangerous몭?몯 

Harry몭s heart sank like a stone, but Hagrid merely 
chuckled. 

몮Thestrals aren몭 dangerous! All righ, they might take a 
bite outta you if yeh really annoy them 멪 몯 

몮 몬Shows . . . signs ... of ... pleasure ... at ... idea ...of 
... violence ... 몬 몯 muttered Umbridge, scribbling on her 
clipboard again. 

몮No 멪 come on!몯 said Hagrid, looking a little anxious 
now. 몮I mean, a dog몭ll bite if yeh bait it, won몭 it 멪 but 
thestrals have jus몭 got a bad reputation because o몭 the 



| 572Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




death thing 멪 people used ter think they were bad 
omens, didn몭 they? Jus몭 didn몭 understand, did they?몯 



Umbridge did not answer; she finished writing her 
last note, then looked up at Hagrid and said, again 
very loudly and slowly, 몮Please continue teaching as 
usual. I am going to walk몯 멪 she mimed walking 멪 
Malfoy and Pansy Parkinson were having silent fits of 
laughter 멪 몮among the students몯 멪 she pointed 
around at individual members of the class 멪 몮and 
ask them questions.몯 She pointed at her mouth to 
indicate talking. 

Hagrid stared at her, clearly at a complete loss to 
understand why she was acting as though he did not 
understand normal English. Hermione had tears of 
fury in her eyes now. 

몮You hag, you evil hag!몯 she whispered, as Umbridge 
walked toward Pansy Parkinson. 몮I know what you몭re 
doing, you awful, twisted, vicious 멪 몯 

몮Erm ... anyway,몯 said Hagrid, clearly struggling to 
regain the flow of his lesson, 몮so 멪 thestrals. Yeah. 
Well, there몭s loads o몭 good stuff abou몭 them...몯 

몮Do you find,몯 said Professor Umbridge in a ringing 
voice to Pansy Parkinson, 몮that you are able to 
understand Professor Hagrid when he talks?몯 

Just like Hermione, Pansy had tears in her eyes, but 
these were tears of laughter; indeed, her answer was 
almost incoherent because she was trying to suppress 
her giggles. 몮No ... because ... well ... it sounds ... like 
grunting a lot of the time...몯 

Umbridge scribbled on her clipboard. The few 
unbruised bits of Hagrid 몭s face flushed, but he tried 
to act as though he had not heard Pansy몭s answer. 

| 573Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Er ... yeah ... good stuff abou몭 thestrals. Well, once 
they몭re tamed, like this lot, yehll never be lost again. 
몬Mazin몭 senses o몭 direction, jus몭 tell 몭em where yeh 
want ter go 멪 몯 

몮Assuming they can understand you, of course,몯 said 
Malfoy loudly, and Pansy Parkinson collapsed in a fit 
of renewed giggles. Professor Umbridge smiled 
indulgently at them and then turned to Neville. 

몮You can see the thestrals, Longbottom, can you?몯 
she said. 

Neville nodded. 

몮Whom did you see die?몯 she asked, her tone 
indifferent. 

몮My ... my grandad,몯 said Neville. 

몮And what do you think of them?몯 she said, waving 
her stubby hand at the horses, who by now had 
stripped a great deal of the carcass down to bone. 

몮Erm,몯 said Neville nervously, with a glance at Hagrid. 
몮Well, they몭re ... er ... okay...몯 

몮 몬Students ... are ... too ... intimidated ... to ... admit 
... they ... are ... frightened...몭 몯 muttered Umbridge, 
making another note on her clipboard. 

몮No!몯 said Neville, looking upset, 몮no, I몭m not scared of 
them 멪 !몯 

몮It몭s quite all right,몯 said Umbridge, patting Neville on 
the shoulder with what she evidently intended to be 
an understanding smile, though it looked more like a 
leer to Harry. 몮Well, Hagrid,몯 she turned to look up at 
him again, speaking once more in that loud, slow 
| 574Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




voice, 몮I think I몭ve got enough to be getting along 
with... You will receive몯 멪 she mimed taking 
something from the air in front of her 멪 몮the results 
of your inspection몯 멪 she pointed at the clipboard 멪 
몮in ten days몭 time.몯 She held up ten stubby little 
fingers, then, her smile wider and more toadlike than 
ever before beneath her green hat, she bustled from 
their midst, leaving Malfoy and Pansy Parkinson in 
fits of laughter, Hermione actually shaking with fury, 
and Neville looking confused and upset. 

몮That foul, lying, twisting old gargoyle!몯 stormed 
Hermione half an hour later, as they made their way 
back up to the castle through the channels they had 
made earlier in the snow. 몮You see what she몭s up to? 
It몭s her thing about half-breeds all over again 멪 she몭s 
trying to make out Hagrid몭s some kind of dim-witted 
troll, just because he had a giantess for a mother 멪 
and oh, it몭s not fair, that really wasn몭t a bad lesson at 
all 멪 I mean, all right, if it had been Blast-Ended 
Skrewts again, but thestrals are fine 멪 in fact, for 
Hagrid, they몭re really good!몯 

몮Umbridge said they몭re dangerous,몯 said Ron. 

몮Well, it몭s like Hagrid said, they can look after 
themselves,몯 said Hermione impatiently, 몮and I 
suppose a teacher like Grubbly-Plank wouldn몭t 
usually show them to us before N.E.W.T. level, but, 
well, they are very interesting, aren몭t they? The way 
some people can see them and some can몭t! I wish I 
could.몯 

몮Do you?몯 Harry asked her quietly. 

She looked horrorstruck. 

몮Oh Harry 멪 I몭m sorry 멪 no, of course I don몭t 멪 that 
was a really stupid thing to say 멪 몯 

| 575Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮It몭s okay,몯 he said quickly, 몮don몭t worry...몯 



몮I몭m surprised so many people could see them,몯 said 
Ron. 몮Three in a class 멪 몯 

몮Yeah, Weasley, we were just wondering,몯 said a 
malicious voice nearby. Unheard by any of them in 
the muffling snow, Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle were 
walking along right behind them. 몮D몭you reckon if you 
saw someone snuff it you몭d be able to see the Quaffle 
better?몯 

He, Crabbe, and Goyle roared with laughter as they 
pushed past on their way to the castle and then broke 
into a chorus of 몮Weasley Is Our King.몯 Ron몭s ears 
turned scarlet. 

몮Ignore them, just ignore them,몯 intoned Hermione, 
pulling out her wand and performing the charm to 
produce hot air again, so that she could melt them an 
easier path through the untouched snow between 
them and the greenhouses. 

December arrived, bringing with it more snow and a 
positive avalanche of homework for the fifth years. 

Ron and Hermione 몭s prefect duties also became more 
and more onerous as Christmas approached. They 
were called upon to supervise the decoration of the 
castle (몮You try putting up tinsel when Peeves has got 
the other end and is trying to strangle you with it,몯 
said Ron), to watch over first and second years 
spending their break times inside because of the 
bitter cold (몮And they몭re cheeky little snotrags, you 
know, we definitely weren몭t that rude when we were in 
first year,몯 said Ron), and to patrol the corridors in 
shifts with Argus Filch, who suspected that the 
holiday spirit might show itself in an outbreak of 
wizard duels (몮He몭s got dung for brains, that one,몯 
said Ron furiously). They were so busy that Hermione 
| 576Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




had stopped knitting elf hats and was fretting that 
she was down to her last three. 

몮All those poor elves I haven몭t set free yet, having to 
stay over during Christmas because there aren몭t 
enough hats!몯 

Harry, who had not had the heart to tell her that 
Dobby was taking everything she made, bent lower 
over his History of Magic essay. In any case, he did 
not want to think about Christmas. For the first time 
in his school career, he very much wanted to spend 
the holidays away from Hogwarts. Between his 
Quidditch ban and worry about whether or not 
Hagrid was going to be put on probation, he felt 
highly resentful toward the place at the moment. The 
only thing he really looked forward to were the D.A. 
meetings, and they would have to stop over the 
holidays, as nearly everybody in the D.A. would be 
spending the time with their families. Hermione was 
going skiing with her parents, something that greatly 
amused Ron, who had never before heard of Muggles 
strapping narrow strips of wood to their feet to slide 
down mountains. Ron, meanwhile, was going home to 
the Burrow. Harry endured several days of jealousy 
before Ron said, in response to Harry asking how Ron 
was going to get home for Christmas, 몮But you몭re 
coming too! Didn몭t I say? Mum wrote and told me to 
invite you weeks ago!몯 

Hermione rolled her eyes, but Harry몭s spirits soared: 
The thought of Christmas at the Burrow was truly 
wonderful, only slightly marred by Harry몭s guilty 
feeling that he would not be able to spend the holiday 
with Sirius. He wondered whether he could possibly 
persuade Mrs. Weasley to invite his godfather for the 
festivities too, but apart from the fact that he doubted 
whether Dumbledore would permit Sirius to leave 
Grimmauld Place, he could not help but feel that Mrs. 
| 577Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Weasley might not want him; they were so often at 
loggerheads. Sirius had not contacted Harry at all 
since his last appearance in the fire, and although 
Harry knew that with Umbridge on the constant 
watch it would be unwise to attempt to contact him, 
he did not like to think of Sirius alone in his mother몭s 
old house, perhaps pulling a lonely cracker with 
Kreacher. 

Harry arrived early in the Room of Requirement for 
the last D.A. meeting before the holidays and was 
very glad he had, because when the lamps burst into 
light he saw that Dobby had taken it upon himself to 
decorate the place for Christmas. He could tell the elf 
had done it, because nobody else would have strung a 
hundred golden baubles from the ceiling, each 
showing a picture of Harry몭s face and bearing the 
legend HAVE A VERY HARRY CHRISTMAS! 

Harry had only just managed to get the last of them 
down before the door creaked open and Luna 
Lovegood entered, looking dreamy as always. 

몮Hello,몯 she said vaguely, looking around at what 
remained of the decorations. 몮These are nice, did you 
put them up?몯 

몮No,몯 said Harry, 몮it was Dobby the house-elf.몯 

몮Mistletoe,몯 said Luna dreamily, pointing at a large 
clump of white berries placed almost over Harry몭s 
head. He jumped out from under it. 몮Good thinking,몯 
said Luna very seriously. 몮It몭s often infested with 
nargles.몯 

Harry was saved the necessity of asking what nargles 
were by the arrival of Angelina, Katie, and Alicia. All 
three of them were breathless and looked very cold. 



| 578Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Well,몯 said Angelina dully, pulling off her cloak and 
throwing it into a corner, 몮we몭ve replaced you.몯 



몮Replaced me?몯 said Harry blankly. 

몮You and Fred and George,몯 she said impatiently. 
몮We몭ve got another Seeker!몯 

몮Who?몯 said Harry quickly. 

몮Ginny Weasley,몯 said Katie. 

Harry gaped at her. 

몮Yeah, I know,몯 said Angelina, pulling out her wand 
and flexing her arm. 몮But she몭s pretty good, actually. 
Nothing on you, of course,몯 she said, throwing him a 
very dirty look, 몮but as we can몭t have you ...몯 

Harry bit back the retort he was longing to utter: Did 
she imagine for a second that he did not regret his 
expulsion from the team a hundred times more than 
she did? 

몮And what about the Beaters?몯 he asked, trying to 
keep his voice even. 

몮Andrew Kirke,몯 said Alicia without enthusiasm, 몮and 
Jack Sloper. Neither of them are brilliant, but 
compared with the rest of the idiots who turned up 



The arrival of Ron, Hermione, and Neville brought this 
depressing discussion to an end and within five 
minutes, the room was full enough to prevent him 
seeing Angelina몭s burning, reproachful looks. 

몮Okay,몯 he said, calling them all to order. 몮I thought 
this evening we should just go over the things we몭ve 

| 579Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




done so far, because it몭s the last meeting before the 
holidays and there몭s no point starting anything new 
right before a three-week break 멪 몯 

몮We몭re not doing anything new?몯 said Zacharias 
Smith, in a disgruntled whisper loud enough to carry 
through the room. 몮If I몭d known that, I wouldn몭t have 
come...몯 

몮We몭re all really sorry Harry didn몭t tell you, then,몯 said 
Fred loudly. 

Several people sniggered. Harry saw Cho laughing 
and felt the familiar swooping sensation in his 
stomach, as though he had missed a step going 
downstairs. 

몮We can practice in pairs,몯 said Harry. 몮Well start 
with the Impediment Jinx, just for ten minutes, then 
we can get out the cushions and try Stunning again.몯 

They all divided up obediently; Harry partnered 
Neville as usual. The room was soon full of 
intermittent cries of 몮 Impedimental 몯 People froze for a 
minute or so, during which their partners would stare 
aimlessly around the room watching other pairs at 
work, then would unfreeze and take their turn at the 
jinx. 

Neville had improved beyond all recognition. After a 
while, when Harry had unfrozen three times in a row, 
he had Neville join Ron and Hermione again so that 
he could walk around the room and watch the others. 
When he passed Cho she beamed at him; he resisted 
the temptation to walk past her several more times. 

After ten minutes on the Impediment Jinx, they laid 
out cushions all over the floor and started practicing 
Stunning again. Space was really too confined to 

| 580Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




allow them all to work this spell at once; half the 
group observed the others for a while, then swapped 
over. Harry felt himself positively swelling with pride 
as he watched them all. True, Neville did Stun Padma 
Patil rather than Dean, at whom he had been aiming, 
but it was a much closer miss than usual, and 
everybody else had made enormous progress. 

At the end of an hour, Harry called a halt. 

몮You몭re getting really good,몯 he said, beaming around 
at them. 몮When we get back from the holidays we can 
start doing some of the big stuff 멪 maybe even 
Patronuses.몯 

There was a murmur of excitement. The room began 
to clear in the usual twos and threes; most people 
wished Harry a Happy Christmas as they went. 

Feeling cheerful, he collected up the cushions with 
Ron and Hermione and stacked them neatly away. 

Ron and Hermione left before he did; he hung back a 
little, because Cho was still there and he was hoping 
to receive a Merry Christmas from her. 

몮No, you go on,몯 he heard her say to her friend 
Marietta, and his heart gave a jolt that seemed to take 
it into the region of his Adam몭s apple. 

He pretended to be straightening the cushion pile. He 
was quite sure they were alone now and waited for 
her to speak. Instead, he heard a hearty sniff. 

He turned and saw Cho standing in the middle of the 
room, tears pouring down her face. 

몮Wha 멪 ?몯 



He didn몭t know what to do. She was simply standing 
there, crying silently. 

| 581Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮What몭s up?몯 he said feebly. 



She shook her head and wiped her eyes on her sleeve. 
몮I몭m 멪 sorry,몯 she said thickly. 몮I suppose ... it몭s just 
... learning all this stuff... It just makes me ... wonder 
whether ... if he몭d known it all ... he몭d still be alive...몯 

Harry몭s heart sank right back past its usual spot and 
settled somewhere around his navel. He ought to have 
known. She wanted to talk about Cedric. 

몮He did know this stuff,몯 Harry said heavily. 몮He was 
really good at it, or he could never have got to the 
middle of that maze. But if Voldemort really wants to 
kill you, you don몭t stand a chance.몯 

She hiccuped at the sound of Voldemort몭s name, but 
stared at Harry without flinching. 

몮 You survived when you were just a baby,몯 she said 
quietly. 

몮Yeah, well,몯 said Harry wearily, moving toward the 
door, 몮I dunno why, nor does anyone else, so it몭s 
nothing to be proud of.몯 

몮Oh don몭t go!몯 said Cho, sounding tearful again. 몮I몭m 
really sorry to get all upset like this... I didn몭t mean 
to...몯 

She hiccuped again. She was very pretty even when 
her eyes were red and puffy. Harry felt thoroughly 
miserable. He몭d have been so pleased just with a 
Merry Christmas... 

몮I know it must be horrible for you,몯 she said, 
mopping her eyes on her sleeve again. 몮Me 
mentioning Cedric, when you saw him die... I suppose 
you just want to forget about it...몯 

| 582Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry did not say anything to this; it was quite true, 
but he felt heartless saying it. 

몮You몭re a r-really good teacher, you know,몯 said Cho, 
with a watery smile. 몮I몭ve never been able to Stun 
anything before.몯 

몮Thanks,몯 said Harry awkwardly. 

They looked at each other for a long moment. Harry 
felt a burning desire to run from the room and, at the 
same time, a complete inability to move his feet. 

몮Mistletoe,몯 said Cho quietly, pointing at the ceiling 
over his head. 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry. His mouth was very dry. 몮It몭s 
probably full of nargles, though.몯 

몮What are nargles?몯 

몮No idea,몯 said Harry. She had moved closer. His 
brain seemed to have been Stunned. 몮You몭d have to 
ask Loony. Luna, I mean.몯 

Cho made a funny noise halfway between a sob and a 
laugh. She was even nearer him now. He could have 
counted the freckles on her nose. 

몮I really like you, Harry.몯 

He could not think. A tingling sensation was 
spreading throughout him, paralyzing his arms, legs, 
and brain. 

She was much too close. He could see every tear 
clinging to her eyelashes... 



| 583Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He returned to the common room half an hour later to 
find Hermione and Ron in the best seats by the fire; 
nearly everybody else had gone to bed. Hermione was 
writing a very long letter; she had already filled half a 
roll of parchment, which was dangling from the edge 
of the table. Ron was lying on the hearthrug, trying to 
finish his Transfiguration homework. 

몮What kept you?몯 he asked, as Harry sank into the 
armchair next to Hermione 몭s. 

Harry did not answer. He was in a state of shock. Half 
of him wanted to tell Ron and Hermione what had 
just happened, but the other half wanted to take the 
secret with him to the grave. 

몮Are you all right, Harry?몯 Hermione asked, peering at 
him over the tip of her quill. 

Harry gave a halfhearted shrug. In truth, he didn몭t 
know whether he was all right or not. 몮What몭s up?몯 
said Ron, hoisting himself up on his elbow to get a 
clearer view of Harry. 몮What몭s happened?몯 

Harry didn몭t quite know how to set about telling them, 
and still wasn몭t sure whether he wanted to. Just as he 
had decided not to say anything, Hermione took 
matters out of his hands. 

몮Is it Cho?몯 she asked in a businesslike way. 몮Did she 
corner you after the meeting?몯 

Numbly surprised, Harry nodded. Ron sniggered, 
breaking off when Hermione caught his eye. 

몮So 멪 er 멪 what did she want?몯 he asked in a mock 
casual voice. 



| 584Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮She 멪 몯 Harry began, rather hoarsely; he cleared his 
throat and tried again. 몮She 멪 er 멪 몯 



몮Did you kiss?몯 asked Hermione briskly. 

Ron sat up so fast that he sent his ink bottle flying all 
over the rug. Disregarding this completely he stared 
avidly at Harry. 

몮Well?몯 he demanded. 

Harry looked from Ron몭s expression of mingled 
curiosity and hilarity to Hermione몭s slight frown, and 
nodded. 

몮HA!몯 

Ron made a triumphant gesture with his fist and 
went into a raucous peal of laughter that made 
several timid-looking second years over beside the 
window jump. A reluctant grin spread over Harry몭s 
face as he watched Ron rolling around on the 
hearthrug. Hermione gave Ron a look of deep disgust 
and returned to her letter. 

몮Well?몯 Ron said finally, looking up at Harry. 몮How 
was it?몯 

Harry considered for a moment. 

몮Wet,몯 he said truthfully. 

Ron made a noise that might have indicated 
jubilation or disgust, it was hard to tell. 

몮Because she was crying,몯 Harry continued heavily. 

몮Oh,몯 said Ron, his smile fading slightly. 몮Are you that 
bad at kissing?몯 

| 585Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Dunno,몯 said Harry, who hadn몭t considered this, and 
immediately felt rather worried. 몮Maybe I am.몯 



몮Of course you몭re not,몯 said Hermione absently, still 
scribbling away at her letter. 

몮How do you know?몯 said Ron in a sharp voice. 

몮Because Cho spends half her time crying these 
days,몯 said Hermione vaguely. 몮She does it at 
mealtimes, in the loos, all over the place.몯 

몮You몭d think a bit of kissing would cheer her up,몯 said 
Ron, grinning. 

몮Ron,몯 said Hermione in a dignified voice, dipping the 
point of her quill into her ink pot, 몮you are the most 
insensitive wart I have ever had the misfortune to 
meet.몯 

몮What몭s that supposed to mean?몯 said Ron 
indignantly. 몮What sort of person cries while 
someone몭s kissing them?몯 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry, slightly desperately, 몮who does?몯 

Hermione looked at the pair of them with an almost 
pitying expression on her face. 

몮Don몭t you understand how Cho몭s feeling at the 
moment?몯 she asked. 

몮No,몯 said Harry and Ron together. 

Hermione sighed and laid down her quill. 

몮Well, obviously, she몭s feeling very sad, because of 
Cedric dying. Then I expect she몭s feeling confused 
because she liked Cedric and now she likes Harry, 

| 586Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




and she can몭t work out who she likes best. Then she몭ll 
be feeling guilty, thinking it몭s an insult to Cedric몭s 
memory to be kissing Harry at all, and she몭ll be 
worrying about what everyone else might say about 
her if she starts going out with Harry. And she 
probably can몭t work out what her feelings toward 
Harry are anyway, because he was the one who was 
with Cedric when Cedric died, so that몭s all very mixed 
up and painful. Oh, and she몭s afraid she몭s going to be 
thrown off the Ravenclaw Quidditch team because 
she몭s been flying so badly.몯 

A slightly stunned silence greeted the end of this 
speech, then Ron said, 몮One person can몭t feel all that 
at once, they몭d explode.몯 

몮Just because you몭ve got the emotional range of a 
teaspoon doesn몭t mean we all have,몯 said Hermione 
nastily, picking up her quill again. 

몮She was the one who started it,몯 said Harry. 몮I 
wouldn몭t몭ve 멪 she just sort of came at me 멪 and next 
thing she몭s crying all over me 멪 I didn몭t know what to 
do 멪 몯 



몮Don몭t blame you, mate,몯 said Ron, looking alarmed at 
the very thought. 

몮You just had to be nice to her,몯 said Hermione, 
looking up anxiously. 몮You were, weren몭t you?몯 

몮Well,몯 said Harry, an unpleasant heat creeping up 
his face, 몮I sort of 멪 patted her on the back a bit.몯 

Hermione looked as though she was restraining 
herself from rolling her eyes with extreme difficulty. 

몮Well, I suppose it could have been worse,몯 she said. 
몮Are you going to see her again?몯 

| 587Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I몭ll have to, won몭t I?몯 said Harry. 몮We몭ve got D.A. 
meetings, haven몭t we?몯 



몮You know what I mean,몯 said Hermione impatiently. 

Harry said nothing. Hermione 몭s words opened up a 
whole new vista of frightening possibilities. He tried to 
imagine going somewhere with Cho 멪 Hogsmeade, 
perhaps 멪 and being alone with her for hours at a 
time. Of course, she would have been expecting him 
to ask her out after what had just happened... The 
thought made his stomach clench painfully. 

몮Oh well,몯 said Hermione distantly, buried in her 
letter once more, 몮you몭ll have plenty of opportunities 
to ask her...몯 

몮What if he doesn몭t want to ask her?몯 said Ron, who 
had been watching Harry with an unusually shrewd 
expression on his face. 

몮Don몭t be silly,몯 said Hermione vaguely, 몮Harry몭s liked 
her for ages, haven몭t you, Harry?몯 

He did not answer. Yes, he had liked Cho for ages, 
but whenever he had imagined a scene involving the 
two of them it had always featured a Cho who was 
enjoying herself, as opposed to a Cho who was 
sobbing uncontrollably into his shoulder. 

몮Who 몭re you writing the novel to anyway?몯 Ron asked 
Hermione, trying to read the bit of parchment now 
trailing on the floor. Hermione hitched it up out of 
sight. 

몮Viktor.몯 

몮Krum?몯 

| 588Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮How many other Viktors do we know?몯 



Ron said nothing, but looked disgruntled. They sat in 
silence for another twenty minutes, Ron finishing his 
Transfiguration essay with many snorts of impatience 
and crossings-out, Hermione writing steadily to the 
very end of the parchment, rolling it up carefully and 
sealing it, and Harry staring into the fire, wishing 
more than anything that Sirius몭s head would appear 
there and give him some advice about girls. But the 
fire merely crackled lower and lower, until the red-hot 
embers crumbled into ash and, looking around, Harry 
saw that they were, yet again, the last in the common 
room. 

몮Well, 몭night,몯 said Hermione, yawning widely, and 
she set off up the girls몭 staircase. 

몮What does she see in Krum?몯 Ron demanded as he 
and Harry climbed the boys몭 stairs. 

몮Well,몯 said Harry, considering the matter, 몮I s몭pose 
he몭s older, isn몭t he ... and he몭s an international 
Quidditch player...몯 

몮Yeah, but apart from that,몯 said Ron, sounding 
aggravated. 몮I mean he몭s a grouchy git, isn몭t he?몯 

몮Bit grouchy, yeah,몯 said Harry, whose thoughts were 
still on Cho. 

They pulled off their robes and put on pajamas in 
silence; Dean, Seamus, and Neville were already 
asleep. Harry put his glasses on his bedside table and 
got into bed but did not pull the hangings closed 
around his four-poster; instead he stared at the patch 
of starry sky visible through the window next to 
Neville몭s bed. If he had known, this time last night, 

| 589Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




that in twenty-four hours몭 time he would have kissed 
Cho Chang ... 



몮 몭Night,몯 grunted Ron, from somewhere to his right. 

몮 몭Night,몯 said Harry. 

Maybe next time ... if there was a next time ... she몭d 
be a bit happier. He ought to have asked her out; she 
had probably been expecting it and was now really 
angry with him ... or was she lying in bed, still crying 
about Cedric? He did not know what to think. 
Hermione몭s explanation had made it all seem more 
complicated rather than easier to understand. 

That몭s what they should teach us here, he thought, 
turning over onto his side, how girls몭 brains work ... 
it몭d be more useful than Divination anyway... 

Neville snuffled in his sleep. An owl hooted 
somewhere out in the night. 

Harry dreamed he was back in the D.A. room. Cho 
was accusing him of luring her there under false 
pretenses; she said that he had promised her a 
hundred and fifty Chocolate Frog cards if she showed 
up. Harry protested... Cho shouted, 몮 Cedric gave me 
loads of Chocolate Frog cards, look\몯 And she pulled 
out fistfuls of cards from inside her robes and threw 
them into the air, and then turned into Hermione, 
who said, 몮You did promise her, you know, Harry... I 
think you몭d better give her something else instead... 
How about your Firebolt?몯 And Harry was protesting 
that he could not give Cho his Firebolt because 
Umbridge had it, and anyway the whole thing was 
ridiculous, he몭d only come to the D.A. room to put up 
some Christmas baubles shaped like Dobby몭s head... 

The dream changed... 

| 590Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




His body felt smooth, powerful, and flexible. He was 
gliding between shining metal bars, across dark, cold 
stone... He was flat against the floor, sliding along on 
his belly... It was dark, yet he could see objects 
around him shimmering in strange, vibrant colors... 
He was turning his head... At first glance, the corridor 
was empty . . . but no ... a man was sitting on the floor 
ahead, his chin drooping onto his chest, his outline 
gleaming in the dark. . . 

Harry put out his tongue... He tasted the man몭s scent 
on the air. . . He was alive but drowsing . . . sitting in 
front of a door at the end of the corridor . . . 

Harry longed to bite the man . . . but he must master 
the impulse... He had more important work to do... 

But the man was stirring ... a silvery cloak fell from 
his legs as he jumped to his feet; and Harry saw his 
vibrant, blurred outline towering above him, saw a 
wand withdrawn from a belt... He had no choice... He 
reared high from the floor and struck once, twice, 
three times, plunging his fangs deeply into the man몭s 
flesh, feeling his ribs splinter beneath his jaws, feeling 
the warm gush of blood... 

The man was yelling in pain ... then he fell silent... He 
slumped backward against the wall... Blood was 
splattering onto the floor... 

His forehead hurt terribly. . . It was aching fit to 
burst... 

몮Harry! HARRY!몯 

He opened his eyes. Every inch of his body was 
covered in icy sweat; his bedcovers were twisted all 
around him like a straitjacket; he felt as though a 
white-hot poker was being applied to his forehead. 

| 591Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Harryl몯 



Ron was standing over him looking extremely 
frightened. There were more figures at the foot of 
Harry몭s bed. He clutched his head in his hands; the 
pain was blinding him... He rolled right over and 
vomited over the edge of the mattress. 

몮He몭s really ill,몯 said a scared voice. 몮Should we call 
someone?몯 

몮Harry! Harryl몯 

He had to tell Ron, it was very important that he tell 
him... Taking great gulps of air, Harry pushed himself 
up in bed, willing himself not to throw up again, the 
pain half-blinding him. 

몮Your dad,몯 he panted, his chest heaving. 몮Your dad몭s 
... been attacked...몯 

몮What?몯 said Ron uncomprehendingly. 

몮Your dad! He몭s been bitten, it몭s serious, there was 
blood everywhere...몯 

몮I몭m going for help,몯 said the same scared voice, and 
Harry heard footsteps running out of the dormitory. 

몮Harry, mate,몯 said Ron uncertainly, 몮you ... you were 
just dreaming...몯 

몮No!몯 said Harry furiously; it was crucial that Ron 
understand. 몮It wasn몭t a dream ... not an ordinary 
dream... I was there, I saw it... I did it...몯 

He could hear Seamus and Dean muttering but did 
not care. The pain in his forehead was subsiding 
slightly, though he was still sweating and shivering 

| 592Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




feverishly. He retched again and Ron leapt backward 
out of the way. 

몮Harry, you몭re not well,몯 he said shakily. 몮Neville몭s 
gone for help...몯 

몮I몭m fine!몯 Harry choked, wiping his mouth on his 
pajamas and shaking uncontrollably. 몮There몭s nothing 
wrong with me, it몭s your dad you몭ve got to worry 
about 멪 we need to find out where he is 멪 he몭s 
bleeding like mad 멪 I was 멪 it was a huge snake...몯 

He tried to get out of bed but Ron pushed him back 
into it; Dean and Seamus were still whispering 
somewhere nearby. Whether one minute passed or 
ten, Harry did not know; he simply sat there shaking, 
feeling the pain recede very slowly from his scar. . . 
Then there were hurried footsteps coming up the 
stairs, and he heard Neville몭s voice again. 

몮Over here, Professor ...몯 

Professor McGonagall came hurrying into the 
dormitory in her tartan dressing gown, her glasses 
perched lopsidedly on the bridge of her bony nose. 

몮What is it, Potter? Where does it hurt?몯 

He had never been so pleased to see her; it was a 
member of the Order of the Phoenix he needed now, 
not someone fussing over him and prescribing useless 
potions. 

몮It몭s Ron몭s dad,몯 he said, sitting up again. 몮He몭s been 
attacked by a snake and it몭s serious, I saw it happen.몯 

몮What do you mean, you saw it happen?몯 said 
Professor McGonagall, her dark eyebrows contracting. 



| 593Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I don몭t know... I was asleep and then I was there...몯 

몮You mean you dreamed this?몯 

몮No!몯 said Harry angrily. Would none of them 
understand? 몮I was having a dream at first about 
something completely different, something stupid . . . 
and then this interrupted it. It was real, I didn몭t 
imagine it, Mr. Weasley was asleep on the floor and 
he was attacked by a gigantic snake, there was a load 
of blood, he collapsed, someone몭s got to find out 
where he is...몯 

Professor McGonagall was gazing at him through her 
lopsided spectacles as though horrified at what she 
was seeing. 

몮I몭m not lying, and I몭m not mad!몯 Harry told her, his 
voice rising to a shout. 몮I tell you, I saw it happen!몯 

몮I believe you, Potter,몯 said Professor McGonagall 
curtly. 몮Put on your dressing-gown 멪 we몭re going to 
see the headmaster.몯 



| 594Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






&amp; 



ST. MUNGO몭S HOSPITAL FOR 
MAGICAL MALADIES AND INJURIES 

Harry was so relieved that she was taking him 
seriously that he did not hesitate, but jumped out of 
bed at once, pulled on his dressing gown, and pushed 
his glasses back onto his nose. 

몮Weasley, you ought to come too,몯 said Professor 
McGonagall. 

They followed Professor McGonagall past the silent 
figures of Neville, Dean, and Seamus, out of the 
dormitory, down the spiral stairs into the common 
room, through the portrait hole, and off along the Fat 
Lady몭s moonlit corridor. Harry felt as though the 
panic inside him might spill over at any moment; he 
wanted to run, to yell for Dumbledore. Mr. Weasley 
was bleeding as they walked along so sedately, and 
what if those fangs (Harry tried hard not to think 몮my 
fangs몯) had been poisonous? They passed Mrs. Norris, 
who turned her lamplike eyes upon them and hissed 
faintly, but Professor McGonagall said, 몮Shoo!몯 Mrs. 



| 595Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



Norris slunk away into the shadows, and in a few 
minutes they had reached the stone gargoyle 
guarding the entrance to Dumbledore몭s office. 

몮Fizzing Whizbee,몯 said Professor McGonagall. 

The gargoyle sprang to life and leapt aside; the wall 
behind it split in two to reveal a stone staircase that 
was moving continuously upward like a spiral 
escalator. The three of them stepped onto the moving 
stairs; the wall closed behind them with a thud, and 
they were moving upward in tight circles until they 
reached the highly polished oak door with the brass 
knocker shaped like a griffin. 

Though it was now well past midnight, there were 
voices coming from inside the room, a positive babble 
of them. It sounded as though Dumbledore was 
entertaining at least a dozen people. 

Professor McGonagall rapped three times with the 
griffin knocker, and the voices ceased abruptly as 
though someone had switched them all off. The door 
opened of its own accord and Professor McGonagall 
led Harry and Ron inside. 

The room was in half darkness; the strange silver 
instruments standing on tables were silent and still 
rather than whirring and emitting puffs of smoke as 
they usually did. The portraits of old headmasters 
and headmistresses covering the walls were all 
snoozing in their frames. Behind the door, a 
magnificent red-and-gold bird the size of a swan 
dozed on its perch with its head under its wing. 

몮Oh, it몭s you, Professor McGonagall ... and ... ah.몯 

Dumbledore was sitting in a high-backed chair 
behind his desk; he leaned forward into the pool of 

| 596Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




candlelight illuminating the papers laid out before 
him. He was wearing a magnificently embroidered 
purple-and-gold dressing gown over a snowy-white 
nightshirt, but seemed wide awake, his penetrating 
light-blue eyes fixed intently upon Professor 
McGonagall. 

몮Professor Dumbledore, Potter has had a ... well, a 
nightmare,몯 said Professor McGonagall. 몮He says ...몯 

몮It wasn몭t a nightmare,몯 said Harry quickly. 

Professor McGonagall looked around at Harry, 
frowning slightly. 

몮Very well, then, Potter, you tell the headmaster about 
it.몯 ~ 

몮I ... well, I was asleep...몯 said Harry and even in his 
terror and his desperation to make Dumbledore 
understand he felt slightly irritated that the 
headmaster was not looking at him, but examining 
his own interlocked fingers. 몮But it wasn몭t an ordinary 
dream ... it was real... I saw it happen...몯 He took a 
deep breath, 몮Ron몭s dad 멪 Mr. Weasley 멪 has been 
attacked by a giant snake.몯 

The words seemed to reverberate in the air after he 
had said them, slightly ridiculous, even comic. There 
was a pause in which Dumbledore leaned back and 
stared meditatively at the ceiling. Ron looked from 
Harry to Dumbledore, white-faced and shocked. 

몮How did you see this?몯 Dumbledore asked quietly, 
still not looking at Harry. 

몮Well ... I don몭t know,몯 said Harry, rather angrily 멪 
what did it matter? 몮Inside my head, I suppose 멪 몯 



| 597Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮You misunderstand me,몯 said Dumbledore, still in 
the same calm tone. 몮I mean ... can you remember 멪 
er 멪 where you were positioned as you watched this 
attack happen? Were you perhaps standing beside 
the victim, or else looking down on the scene from 
above?몯 

This was such a curious question that Harry gaped at 
Dumbledore; it was almost as though he knew ... 

몮I was the snake,몯 he said. 몮I saw it all from the 
snake몭s point of view...몯 

Nobody else spoke for a moment, then Dumbledore, 
now looking at Ron, who was still whey-faced, said in 
a new and sharper voice, 몮Is Arthur seriously 
injured?몯 

몮 Yes몯 said Harry emphatically 멪 why were they all so 
slow on the uptake, did they not realize how much a 
person bled when fangs that long pierced their side? 
And why could Dumbledore not do him the courtesy 
of looking at him? 

But Dumbledore stood up so quickly that Harry 
jumped, and addressed one of the old portraits 
hanging very near the ceiling. 

몮Everard?몯 he said sharply. 몮And you too, Dilys!몯 

A sallow-faced wizard with short, black bangs and an 
elderly witch with long silver ringlets in the frame 
beside him, both of whom seemed to have been in the 
deepest of sleeps, opened their eyes immediately. 

몮You were listening?몯 said Dumbledore. 

The wizard nodded, the witch said, 몮Naturally.몯 



| 598Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮The man has red hair and glasses,몯 said 
Dumbledore. 몮Everard, you will need to raise the 
alarm, make sure he is found by the right people 멪 몯 

Both nodded and moved sideways out of their frames, 
but instead of emerging in neighboring pictures (as 
usually happened at Hogwarts), neither reappeared; 
one frame now contained nothing but a backdrop of 
dark curtain, the other a handsome leather armchair. 
Harry noticed that many of the other headmasters 
and mistresses on the walls, though snoring and 
drooling most convincingly, kept sneaking peeks at 
him under their eyelids, and he suddenly understood 
who had been talking when they had knocked. 

몮Everard and Dilys were two of Hogwarts 몭s most 
celebrated Heads,몯 Dumbledore said, now sweeping 
around Harry, Ron, and Professor McGonagall and 
approaching the magnificent sleeping bird on his 
perch beside the door. 몮Their renown is such that 
both have portraits hanging in other important 
Wizarding institutions. As they are free to move 
between their own portraits they can tell us what may 
be happening elsewhere...몯 

몮But Mr. Weasley could be anywhere!몯 said Harry. 

몮Please sit down, all three of you,몯 said Dumbledore, 
as though Harry had not spoken. 몮Everard and Dilys 
may not be back for several minutes... Professor 
McGonagall, if you could draw up extra chairs ...몯 

Professor McGonagall pulled her wand from the 
pocket of her dressing gown and waved it; three 
chairs appeared out of thin air, straight-backed and 
wooden, quite unlike the comfortable chintz 
armchairs that Dumbledore had conjured back at 
Harry몭s hearing. Harry sat down, watching 
Dumbledore over his shoulder. Dumbledore was now 
| 599Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




stroking Fawkes몭s plumed golden head with one 
finger. The phoenix awoke immediately. He stretched 
his beautiful head high and observed Dumbledore 
through bright, dark eyes. 

몮We will need,몯 said Dumbledore very quietly to the 
bird, 몮a warning.몯 

There was a flash of fire and the phoenix had gone. 

Dumbledore now swooped down upon one of the 
fragile silver instruments whose function Harry had 
never known, carried it over to his desk, sat down 
facing them again, and tapped it gently with the tip of 
his wand. 

The instrument tinkled into life at once with rhythmic 
clinking noises. Tiny puffs of pale green smoke issued 
from the minuscule silver tube at the top. 

Dumbledore watched the smoke closely, his brow 
furrowed, and after a few seconds, the tiny puffs 
became a steady stream of smoke that thickened and 
coiled in the air... A serpent몭s head grew out of the 
end of it, opening its mouth wide. Harry wondered 
whether the instrument was confirming his story: He 
looked eagerly at Dumbledore for a sign that he was 
right, but Dumbledore did not look up. 

몮Naturally, naturally,몯 murmured Dumbledore 
apparently to himself, still observing the stream of 
smoke without the slightest sign of surprise. 몮But in 
essence divided?몯 

Harry could make neither head nor tail of this 
question. The smoke serpent, however, split itself 
instantly into two snakes, both coiling and 
undulating in the dark air. With a look of grim 
satisfaction Dumbledore gave the instrument another 
gentle tap with his wand: The clinking noise slowed 
| 600Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




and died, and the smoke serpents grew faint, became 
a formless haze, and vanished. 

Dumbledore replaced the instrument upon its spindly 
little table; Harry saw many of the old headmasters in 
the portraits follow him with their eyes, then, realizing 
that Harry was watching them, hastily pretend to be 
sleeping again. Harry wanted to ask what the strange 
silver instrument was for, but before he could do so, 
there was a shout from the top of the wall to their 
right; the wizard called Everard had reappeared in his 
portrait, panting slightly. 

몮Dumbledore!몯 

몮What news?몯 said Dumbledore at once. 

몮I yelled until someone came running,몯 said the 
wizard, who was mopping his brow on the curtain 
behind him, 몮said I몭d heard something moving 
downstairs 멪 they weren몭t sure whether to believe me 
but went down to check 멪 you know there are no 
portraits down there to watch from. Anyway, they 
carried him up a few minutes later. He doesn몭t look 
good, he몭s covered in blood, I ran along to Elfrida 
Cragg몭s portrait to get a good view as they left 멪 몯 

몮Good,몯 said Dumbledore as Ron made a convulsive 
movement, 몮I take it Dilys will have seen him arrive, 
then 멪 몯 

And moments later, the silver-ringletted witch had 
reappeared in her picture too; she sank, coughing, 
into her armchair and said, 몮Yes, they몭ve taken him to 
St. Mungo몭s, Dumbledore... They carried him past 
under my portrait... He looks bad...몯 

몮Thank you,몯 said Dumbledore. He looked around at 
Professor McGonagall. 

| 601Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Minerva, I need you to go and wake the other 
Weasley children.몯 

몮Of course...몯 

Professor McGonagall got up and moved swiftly to the 
door; Harry cast a sideways glance at Ron, who was 
now looking terrified. 

몮And Dumbledore 멪 what about Molly?몯 said 
Professor McGonagall, pausing at the door. 

몮That will be a job for Fawkes when he has finished 
keeping a lookout for anybody approaching,몯 said 
Dumbledore. 몮But she may already know ... that 
excellent clock of hers ...몯 

Harry knew Dumbledore was referring to the clock 
that told, not the time, but the whereabouts and 
conditions of the various Weasley family members, 
and with a pang he thought that Mr. Weasley몭s hand 
must, even now, be pointing at 몮mortal peril.몯 But it 
was very late... Mrs. Weasley was probably asleep, not 
watching the clock. . . And he felt cold as he 
remembered Mrs. Weasley몭s boggart turning into Mr. 
Weasley몭s lifeless body, his glasses askew, blood 
running down his face... But Mr. Weasley wasn몭t 
going to die... He couldn몭t... 

Dumbledore was now rummaging in a cupboard 
behind Harry and Ron. He emerged from it carrying a 
blackened old kettle, which he placed carefully upon 
his desk. He raised his wand and murmured 몮Portus몯; 
for a moment the kettle trembled, glowing with an odd 
blue light, then it quivered to a rest, as solidly black 
as ever. 

Dumbledore marched over to another portrait, this 
time of a clever-looking wizard with a pointed beard, 

| 602Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




who had been painted wearing the Slytherin colors of 
green and silver and was apparently sleeping so 
deeply that he could not hear Dumbledore 몭s voice 
when he attempted to rouse him. 

몮Phineas. Phineas.몯 

And now the subjects of the portraits lining the room 
were no longer pretending to be asleep; they were 
shifting around in their frames, the better to watch 
what was happening. When the clever-looking wizard 
continued to feign sleep, some of them shouted his 
name too. 

몮Phineas! Phineas ! PHINEAS!몯 

He could not pretend any longer; he gave a theatrical 
jerk and opened his eyes wide. 

몮Did someone call?몯 

몮I need you to visit your other portrait again, 
Phineas,몯 said Dumbledore. 몮IVe got another 
message.몯 

몮Visit my other portrait?몯 said Phineas in a reedy 
voice, giving a long, fake yawn (his eyes traveling 
around the room and focusing upon Harry). 몮Oh no, 
Dumbledore, I am too tired tonight...몯 

Something about Phineas 몭s voice was familiar to 
Harry. Where had he heard it before? But before he 
could think, the portraits on the surrounding walls 
broke into a storm of protest. 

몮Insubordination, sir!몯 roared a corpulent, red-nosed 
wizard, brandishing his fists. 몮Dereliction of duty!몯 



| 603Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮We are honor-bound to give service to the present 
Headmaster of Hogwarts!몯 cried a frail-looking old 
wizard whom Harry recognized as Dumbledore몭s 
predecessor, Armando Dippet. 몮Shame on you, 
Phineas!몯 

몮Shall I persuade him, Dumbledore?몯 called a gimlet- 
eyed witch, raising an unusually thick wand that 
looked not unlike a birch rod. 

몮Oh, very well,몯 said the wizard called Phineas, eyeing 
this wand slightly apprehensively, 몮though he may 
well have destroyed my picture by now, he몭s done 
most of the family 멪 몯 

몮Sirius knows not to destroy your portrait,몯 said 
Dumbledore, and Harry realized immediately where 
he had heard Phineas 몭s voice before: issuing from the 
apparently empty frame in his bedroom in Grimmauld 
Place. 몮You are to give him the message that Arthur 
Weasley has been gravely injured and that his wife, 
children, and Harry Potter will be arriving at his 
house shortly. Do you understand?몯 

몮Arthur Weasley, injured, wife and children and Harry 
Potter coming to stay,몯 recited Phineas in a bored 
voice. 몮Yes, yes ... very well...몯 

He sloped away into the frame of the portrait and 
disappeared from view at the very moment that the 
study door opened again. Fred, George, and Ginny 
were ushered inside by Professor McGonagall, all 
three of them looking disheveled and shocked, still in 
their night things. 

몮Harry 멪 what몭s going on?몯 asked Ginny, who looked 
frightened. 몮Professor McGonagall says you saw Dad 
hurt 멪 몯 



| 604Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Your father has been injured in the course of his 
work for the Order of the Phoenix,몯 said Dumbledore 
before Harry could speak. 몮He has been taken to St. 
Mungo몭s Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries. I 
am sending you back to Sirius몭s house, which is 
much more convenient for the hospital than the 
Burrow. You will meet your mother there.몯 

몮How몭re we going?몯 asked Fred, looking shaken. 몮Floo 
powder?몯 

몮No,몯 said Dumbledore, 몮Floo powder is not safe at the 
moment, the Network is being watched. You will be 
taking a Portkey.몯 He indicated the old kettle lying 
innocently on his desk. 몮We are just waiting for 
Phineas Nigellus to report back... I wish to be sure 
that the coast is clear before sending you 멪 몯 

There was a flash of flame in the very middle of the 
office, leaving behind a single golden feather that 
floated gently to the floor. 

몮It is Fawkes몭s warning,몯 said Dumbledore, catching 
the feather as it fell. 몮She must know you몭re out of 
your beds... Minerva, go and head her off 멪 tell her 
any story 멪 몯 

Professor McGonagall was gone in a swish of tartan. 

몮He says he몭ll be delighted,몯 said a bored voice behind 
Dumbledore; the wizard called Phineas had 
reappeared in front of his Slytherin banner. 몮My 
great-great-grandson has always had odd taste in 
houseguests...몯 

몮Come here, then,몯 Dumbledore said to Harry and the 
Weasleys. 몮And quickly, before anyone else joins us 



| 605Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry and the others gathered around Dumbledore몭s 
desk. 

몮You have all used a Portkey before?몯 asked 
Dumbledore, and they nodded, each reaching out to 
touch some part of the blackened kettle. 몮Good. On 
the count of three then ... one ... two ...몯 

It happened in a fraction of a second: In the 
infinitesimal pause before Dumbledore said 몮three,몯 
Harry looked up at him 멪 they were very close 
together 멪 and Dumbledore몭s clear blue gaze moved 
from the Portkey to Harry몭s face. 

At once, Harry몭s scar burned white-hot, as though the 
old wound had burst open again 멪 and unbidden, 
unwanted, but terrifyingly strong, there rose within 
Harry a hatred so powerful he felt, for that instant, 
that he would like nothing better than to strike 멪 to 
bite 멪 to sink his fangs into the man before him 멪 

몮... three.몯 

He felt a powerful jerk behind his navel, the ground 
vanished from beneath his feet, his hand was glued to 
the kettle; he was banging into the others as all sped 
forward in a swirl of colors and a rush of wind, the 
kettle pulling them onward and then 멪 

His feet hit the ground so hard that his knees 
buckled, the kettle clattered to the ground and 
somewhere close at hand a voice said, 몮Back again, 
the blood traitor brats, is it true their father몭s dying ... 
?몯 

몮OUT!몯 roared a second voice. 

Harry scrambled to his feet and looked around; they 
had arrived in the gloomy basement kitchen of 

| 606Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




number twelve, Grimmauld Place. The only sources of 
light were the fire and one guttering candle, which 
illuminated the remains of a solitary supper. Kreacher 
was disappearing through the door to the hall, 
looking back at them malevolently as he hitched up 
his loincloth; Sirius was hurrying toward them all, 
looking anxious. He was unshaven and still in his day 
clothes; there was also a slightly Mundungus-like 
whiff of stale drink about him. 

몮What몭s going on?몯 he said, stretching out a hand to 
help Ginny up. 몮Phineas Nigellus said Arthur몭s been 
badly injured 멪 몯 

몮Ask Harry,몯 said Fred. 

몮Yeah, I want to hear this for myself,몯 said George. 

The twins and Ginny were staring at him. Kreacher몭s 
footsteps had stopped on the stairs outside. 

몮It was 멪 몯 Harry began; this was even worse than 
telling McGonagall and Dumbledore. 몮I had a 멪 a 
kind of 멪 vision...몯 

And he told them all that he had seen, though he 
altered the story so that it sounded as though he had 
watched from the sidelines as the snake attacked, 
rather than from behind the snake몭s own eyes... Ron, 
who was still very white, gave him a fleeting look, but 
did not speak. When Harry had finished, Fred, 

George, and Ginny continued to stare at him for a 
moment. Harry did not know whether he was 
imagining it or not, but he fancied there was 
something accusatory in their looks. Well, if they were 
going to blame him for just seeing the attack, he was 
glad he had not told them that he had been inside the 
snake at the time... 



| 607Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Is Mum here?몯 said Fred, turning to Sirius. 



몮She probably doesn몭t even know what몭s happened 
yet,몯 said Sirius. 몮The important thing was to get you 
away before Umbridge could interfere. I expect 
Dumbledore몭s letting Molly know now.몯 

몮We몭ve got to go to St. Mungo몭s,몯 said Ginny urgently. 
She looked around at her brothers; they were of 
course still in their pajamas. 몮Sirius, can you lend us 
cloaks or anything 멪 ?몯 

몮Hang on, you can몭t go tearing off to St. Mungo몭s!몯 
said Sirius. 

몮 몭Course we can go to St. Mungo몭s if we want,몯 said 
Fred, with a mulish expression, 몮he몭s our dad!몯 

몮And how are you going to explain how you knew 
Arthur was attacked before the hospital even let his 
wife know?몯 

몮What does that matter?몯 said George hotly. 

몮It matters because we don몭t want to draw attention 
to the fact that Harry is having visions of things that 
are happening hundreds of miles away!몯 said Sirius 
angrily. 몮Have you any idea what the Ministry would 
make of that information?몯 

Fred and George looked as though they could not care 
less what the Ministry made of anything. Ron was still 
white-faced and silent. Ginny said, 몮Somebody else 
could have told us... We could have heard it 
somewhere other than Harry...몯 

몮Like who?몯 said Sirius impatiently. 몮Listen, your 
dad몭s been hurt while on duty for the Order and the 
circumstances are fishy enough without his children 

| 608Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




knowing about it seconds after it happened, you 
could seriously damage the Order몭s 멪 몯 

몮We don몭t care about the dumb Order!몯 shouted Fred. 

몮It몭s our dad dying we몭re talking about!몯 yelled George. 

몮Your father knew what he was getting into, and he 
won몭t thank you for messing things up for the Order!몯 
said Sirius angrily in his turn. 몮This is how it is 멪 
this is why you몭re not in the Order 멪 you don몭t 
understand 멪 there are things worth dying for!몯 

몮Easy for you to say, stuck here!몯 bellowed Fred. 몮I 
don몭t see you risking your neck!몯 

The little color remaining in Sirius몭s face drained from 
it. He looked for a moment as though he would quite 
like to hit Fred, but when he spoke, it was in a voice 
of determined calm. 몮I know it몭s hard, but we몭ve all got 
to act as though we don몭t know anything yet. We몭ve 
got to stay put, at least until we hear from your 
mother, all right?몯 

Fred and George still looked mutinous. Ginny, 
however, took a few steps over to the nearest chair 
and sank into it. Harry looked at Ron, who made a 
funny movement somewhere between a nod and 
shrug, and they sat down too. The twins glared at 
Sirius for another minute, then took seats on either 
side of Ginny. 

몮That몭s right,몯 said Sirius encouragingly, 몮come on, 
let몭s all ... let몭s all have a drink while we몭re waiting. 
Accio Butterbeeri몯 

He raised his wand as he spoke and half a dozen 
bottles came flying toward them out of the pantry, 
skidded along the table, scattering the debris of 

| 609Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Sirius몭s meal, and stopped neatly in front of the six of 
them. They all drank, and for a while the only sounds 
were those of the crackling of the kitchen fire and the 
soft thud of their bottles on the table. 

Harry was only drinking to have something to do with 
his hands. His stomach was full of horrible hot, 
bubbling guilt. They would not be here if it were not 
for him; they would all still be asleep in bed. And it 
was no good telling himself that by raising the alarm 
he had ensured that Mr. Weasley was found, because 
there was also the inescapable business of it being he 
who had attacked Mr. Weasley in the first place... 

Don몭t be stupid, you haven몭t got fangs, he told himself, 
trying to keep calm, though the hand on his 
butterbeer bottle was shaking. You were lying in bed, 
you weren몭t attacking anyone... 

But then, what just happened in Dumbledore몭s office ? 
he asked himself. I felt like I wanted to attack 
Dumbledore too... 

He put the bottle down on the table a little harder 
than he meant to, so that it slopped over onto the 
table. No one took any notice. Then a burst of fire in 
midair illuminated the dirty plates in front of them 
and as they gave cries of shock, a scroll of parchment 
fell with a thud onto the table, accompanied by a 
single golden phoenix tail feather. 

몮Fawkes!몯 said Sirius at once, snatching up the 
parchment. 몮That몭s not Dumbledore몭s writing 멪 it 
must be a message from your mother 멪 here 멪 몯 

He thrust the letter into George몭s hand, who ripped it 
open and read aloud, 몮 Dad is still alive. I am setting 
out for St. Mungo몭s now. Stay where you are. I will 
send news as soon as I can. Mum.몯 

| 610Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




George looked around the table. 



몮Still alive ...몯 he said slowly. 몮But that makes it 
sound ...몯 

He did not need to finish the sentence. It sounded to 
Harry too as though Mr. Weasley was hovering 
somewhere between life and death. Still exceptionally 
pale, Ron stared at the back of his mother몭s letter as 
though it might speak words of comfort to him. Fred 
pulled the parchment out of George몭s hands and read 
it for himself, then looked up at Harry, who felt his 
hand shaking on his butterbeer bottle again and 
clenched it more tightly to stop the trembling. 

If Harry had ever sat through a longer night than this 
one he could not remember it. Sirius suggested once 
that they all go to bed, but without any real 
conviction, and the Weasleys몭 looks of disgust were 
answer enough. They mostly sat in silence around the 
table, watching the candle wick sinking lower and 
lower into liquid wax, now and then raising bottles to 
their lips, speaking only to check the time, to wonder 
aloud what was happening, and to reassure one 
another that if there was bad news, they would know 
straightaway, for Mrs. Weasley must long since have 
arrived at St. Mungo몭s. 

Fred fell into a doze, his head sagging sideways onto 
his shoulder. Ginny was curled like a cat on her 
chair, but her eyes were open; Harry could see them 
reflecting the firelight. Ron was sitting with his head 
in his hands, whether awake or asleep it was 
impossible to tell. And he and Sirius looked at each 
other every so often, intruders upon the family grief, 
waiting ... waiting ... 

And then, at ten past five in the morning by Ron몭s 
watch, the kitchen door swung open and Mrs. 

| 611Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Weasley entered the kitchen. She was extremely pale, 
but when they all turned to look at her, Fred, Ron, 
and Harry half-rising from their chairs, she gave a 
wan smile. 

몮He몭s going to be all right,몯 she said, her voice weak 
with tiredness. 몮He몭s sleeping. We can all go and see 
him later. Bill몭s sitting with him now, he몭s going to 
take the morning off work.몯 

Fred fell back into his chair with his hands over his 
face. George and Ginny got up, walked swiftly over to 
their mother, and hugged her. Ron gave a very shaky 
laugh and downed the rest of his butterbeer in one. 

몮Breakfast!몯 said Sirius loudly and joyfully, jumping 
to his feet. 몮Where몭s that accursed house-elf? 

Kreacher! KREACHER!몯 

But Kreacher did not answer the summons. 

몮Oh, forget it, then,몯 muttered Sirius, counting the 
people in front of him. 몮So it몭s breakfast for 멪 let몭s see 
멪 seven ... Bacon and eggs, I think, and some tea, 
and toast 멪 몯 

Harry hurried over to the stove to help. He did not 
want to intrude upon the Weasleys몭 happiness, and 
he dreaded the moment when Mrs. Weasley would 
ask him to recount his vision. However, he had barely 
taken plates from the dresser when Mrs. Weasley 
lifted them out of his hands and pulled him into a 
hug. 

몮I don몭t know what would have happened if it hadn몭t 
been for you, Harry,몯 she said in a muffled voice. 

몮They might not have found Arthur for hours, and 
then it would have been too late, but thanks to you 
he몭s alive and Dumbledore몭s been able to think up a 
| 612Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




good cover story for Arthur being where he was, 
you몭ve no idea what trouble he would have been in 
otherwise, look at poor Sturgis...몯 

Harry could hardly stand her gratitude, but 
fortunately she soon released him to turn to Sirius 
and thank him for looking after her children through 
the night. Sirius said that he was very pleased to have 
been able to help, and hoped they would all stay with 
him as long as Mr. Weasley was in hospital. 

몮Oh, Sirius, I몭m so grateful... They think hell be there 
a little while and it would be wonderful to be nearer 
...Of course, that might mean we몭re here for 
Christmas...몯 

몮The more the merrier!몯 said Sirius with such obvious 
sincerity that Mrs. Weasley beamed at him, threw on 
an apron, and began to help with breakfast. 

몮Sirius,몯 Harry muttered, unable to stand it a moment 
longer. 몮Can I have a quick word? Er 멪 now?몯 

He walked into the dark pantry and Sirius followed. 
Without preamble Harry told his godfather every 
detail of the vision he had had, including the fact that 
he himself had been the snake who had attacked Mr. 
Weasley. 

When he paused for breath, Sirius said, 몮Did you tell 
Dumbledore this?몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Harry impatiently, 몮but he didn몭t tell me 
what it meant. Well, he doesn몭t tell me anything 
anymore...몯 

몮I몭m sure he would have told you if it was anything to 
worry about,몯 said Sirius steadily. 



| 613Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮But that몭s not all,몯 said Harry in a voice only a little 
above a whisper. 몮Sirius, I ... I think I몭m going mad... 
Back in Dumbledore몭s office, just before we took the 
Portkey . . . for a couple of seconds there I thought I 
was a snake, I felt like one 멪 my scar really hurt 
when I was looking at Dumbledore 멪 Sirius, I wanted 
to attack him 멪 몯 

He could only see a sliver of Sirius몭s face; the rest was 
in darkness. 

몮It must have been the aftermath of the vision, that몭s 
all,몯 said Sirius. 몮You were still thinking of the dream 
or whatever it was and 멪 몯 

몮It wasn몭t that,몯 said Harry, shaking his head. 몮It was 
like something rose up inside me, like there몭s a snake 
inside me 멪 몯 

몮You need to sleep,몯 said Sirius firmly. 몮You몭re going 
to have breakfast and then go upstairs to bed, and 
then you can go and see Arthur after lunch with the 
others. You몭re in shock, Harry; you몭re blaming 
yourself for something you only witnessed, and it몭s 
lucky you did witness it or Arthur might have died. 
Just stop worrying...몯 

He clapped Harry on the shoulder and left the pantry, 
leaving Harry standing alone in the dark. 

Everyone but Harry spent the rest of the morning 
sleeping. He went up to the bedroom he had shared 
with Ron over the summer, but while Ron crawled 
into bed and was asleep within minutes, Harry sat 
fully clothed, hunched against the cold metal bars of 
the bedstead, keeping himself deliberately 
uncomfortable, determined not to fall into a doze, 
terrified that he might become the serpent again in 
his sleep and awake to find that he had attacked Ron, 
| 614Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




or else slithered through the house after one of the 
others... 

When Ron woke up, Harry pretended to have enjoyed 
a refreshing nap too. Their trunks arrived from 
Hogwarts while they were eating lunch, so that they 
could dress as Muggles for the trip to St. Mungo몭s. 
Everybody except Harry was riotously happy and 
talkative as they changed out of their robes into jeans 
and sweatshirts, and they greeted Tonks and Mad- 
Eye, who had turned up to escort them across 
London, gleefully laughing at the bowler hat Mad-Eye 
was wearing at an angle to conceal his magical eye 
and assuring him, truthfully, that Tonks, whose hair 
was short and bright pink again, would attract far 
less attention on the underground. 

Tonks was very interested in Harry몭s vision of the 
attack on Mr. Weasley, something he was not 
remotely interested in discussing. 

몮There isn몭t any Seer blood in your family, is there?몯 
she inquired curiously, as they sat side by side on a 
train rattling toward the heart of the city. 

몮No,몯 said Harry, thinking of Professor Trelawney and 
feeling insulted. 

몮No,몯 said Tonks musingly, 몮no, I suppose it몭s not 
really prophecy you몭re doing, is it? I mean, you몭re not 
seeing the future, you몭re seeing the present... It몭s odd, 
isn몭t it? Useful, though ...몯 

Harry did not answer; fortunately they got out at the 
next stop, a station in the very heart of London, and 
in the bustle of leaving the train he was able to allow 
Fred and George to get between himself and Tonks, 
who was leading the way. They all followed her up the 
escalator, Moody clunking along at the back of the 
| 615Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




group, his bowler tilted low and one gnarled hand 
stuck in between the buttons of his coat, clutching 
his wand. Harry thought he sensed the concealed eye 
staring hard at him; trying to deflect more questions 
about his dream he asked Mad-Eye where St. 

Mungo몭s was hidden. 

몮Not far from here,몯 grunted Moody as they stepped 
out into the wintry air on a broad store-lined street 
packed with Christmas shoppers. He pushed Harry a 
little ahead of him and stumped along just behind; 
Harry knew the eye was rolling in all directions under 
the tilted hat. 몮Wasn몭t easy to find a good location for 
a hospital. Nowhere in Diagon Alley was big enough 
and we couldn몭t have it underground like the Ministry 
멪 unhealthy. In the end they managed to get hold of 
a building up here. Theory was sick wizards could 
come and go and just blend in with the crowd...몯 

He seized Harry몭s shoulder to prevent them being 
separated by a gaggle of shoppers plainly intent on 
nothing but making it into a nearby shop full of 
electrical gadgets. 

몮Here we go,몯 said Moody a moment later. 

They had arrived outside a large, old-fashioned, red 
brick department store called Purge and Dowse Ltd. 
The place had a shabby, miserable air; the window 
displays consisted of a few chipped dummies with 
their wigs askew, standing at random and modeling 
fashions at least ten years out of date. Large signs on 
all the dusty doors read CLOSED FOR 
REFURBISHMENT. Harry distinctly heard a large 
woman laden with plastic shopping bags say to her 
friend as they passed, 몮It몭s never open, that place...몯 

몮Right,몯 said Tonks, beckoning them forward to a 
window displaying nothing but a particularly ugly 

| 616Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




female dummy whose false eyelashes were hanging off 
and who was modeling a green nylon pinafore dress. 
몮Everybody ready?몯 

They nodded, clustering around her; Moody gave 
Harry another shove between the shoulder blades to 
urge him forward and Tonks leaned close to the glass, 
looking up at the very ugly dummy and said, her 
breath steaming up the glass, 몮Wotcher ... We몭re here 
to see Arthur Weasley.몯 

For a split second, Harry thought how absurd it was 
for Tonks to expect the dummy to hear her talking 
that quietly through a sheet of glass, when there were 
buses rumbling along behind her and all the racket of 
a street full of shoppers. Then he reminded himself 
that dummies could not hear anyway. Next second 
his mouth opened in shock as the dummy gave a tiny 
nod, beckoned its jointed finger, and Tonks had 
seized Ginny and Mrs. Weasley by the elbows, 
stepped right through the glass and vanished. 

Fred, George, and Ron stepped after them; Harry 
glanced around at the jostling crowd; not one of them 
seemed to have a glance to spare for window displays 
as ugly as Purge and Dowse Ltd.몭s, nor did any of 
them seem to have noticed that six people had just 
melted into thin air in front of them. 

몮C몭mon,몯 growled Moody, giving Harry yet another 
poke in the back and together they stepped forward 
through what felt like a sheet of cool water, emerging 
quite warm and dry on the other side. 

There was no sign of the ugly dummy or the space 
where she had stood. They had arrived in what 
seemed to be a crowded reception area where rows of 
witches and wizards sat upon rickety wooden chairs, 
some looking perfectly normal and perusing out-of- 
P a g e | 617Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




date copies of Witch Weekly, others sporting gruesome 
disfigurements such as elephant trunks or extra 
hands sticking out of their chests. The room was 
scarcely less quiet than the street outside, for many of 
the patients were making very peculiar noises. A 
sweaty-faced witch in the center of the front row, who 
was fanning herself vigorously with a copy of the 
Daily Prophet, kept letting off a high-pitched whistle 
as steam came pouring out of her mouth, and a 
grubby-looking warlock in the corner clanged like a 
bell every time he moved, and with each clang his 
head vibrated horribly, so that he had to seize himself 
by the ears and hold it steady. 

Witches and wizards in lime-green robes were walking 
up and down the rows, asking questions and making 
notes on clipboards like Umbridge몭s. Harry noticed 
the emblem embroidered on their chests: a wand and 
bone, crossed. 

몮Are they doctors?몯 he asked Ron quietly. 

몮Doctors?몯 said Ron, looking startled. 몮Those Muggle 
nutters that cut people up? Nah, they몭re Healers.몯 

몮Over here!몯 called Mrs. Weasley over the renewed 
clanging of the warlock in the corner, and they 
followed her to the queue in front of a plump blonde 
witch seated at a desk marked inquiries. The wall 
behind her was covered in notices and posters saying 
things like A CLEAN CAULDRON KEEPS POTIONS 
FROM BECOMING POISONS and ANTIDOTES ARE 
ANTI-DONTS UNLESS APPROVED BY A QUALIFIED 
HEALER. 

There was also a large portrait of a witch with long 
silver ringlets that was labelled 

DILYS DERWENT 

| 618Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




ST. MUNGO몭S HEALER 1722-1741 



HEADMISTRESS OF HOGWARTS SCHOOL OF 

WITCHCRAFT AND WIZARDRY, I74I-I768 

Dilys was eyeing the Weasley party as though 
counting them; when Harry caught her eye she gave a 
tiny wink, walked sideways out of her portrait, and 
vanished. 

Meanwhile, at the front of the queue, a young wizard 
was performing an odd on-the-spot jig and trying, in 
between yelps of pain, to explain his predicament to 
the witch behind the desk. 

몮It몭s these 멪 ouch 멪 shoes my brother gave me 멪 ow 
멪 they몭re eating my 멪 OUCH 멪 feet 멪 look at them, 
there must be some kind of 멪 AARGH 멪 jinx on them 
and I can몭t 멪 AAAAARGH 멪 get them off 멪 몯 

He hopped from one foot to the other as though 
dancing on hot coals. 

몮The shoes don몭t prevent you reading, do they?몯 said 
the blonde witch irritably, pointing at a large sign to 
the left of her desk. 몮You want Spell Damage, fourth 
floor. Just like it says on the floor guide. Next!몯 

The wizard hobbled and pranced sideways out of the 
way, the Weasley party moved forward a few steps 
and Harry read the floor guide: 

ARTIFACT ACCIDENTS Ground Floor 

(Cauldron explosion, wand backfiring, broom crashes, 
etc.) 



| 619Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




CREATURE-INDUCED INJURIES 



First Floor 



(Bites, stings, burns, embedded spines, etc.) 

MAGICAL BUGS Second Floor 

(Contagious maladies, e.g., dragon pox, vanishing 
sickness, scrofungulus) 

POTION AND PLANT POISONING .... Third Floor 

(Rashes, regurgitation, uncontrollable giggling, etc.) 

SPELL DAMAGE Fourth Floor 

(Unliftable jinxes, hexes, and incorrectly applied 
charms, etc.) 

VISITORS몭 TEAROOM AND HOSPITAL SHOP... .Fifth 
Floor 

If you are unsure where to go, incapable, of normal 
speech, or unable to remember why you are here, our 
Welcome Witch will be pleased to help. 

A very old, stooped wizard with a hearing trumpet 
had shuffled to the front of the queue now. 

몮I몭m here to see Broderick Bode!몯 he wheezed. 

몮Ward forty-nine, but I몭m afraid you몭re wasting your 
time,몯 said the witch dismissively 몮He몭s completely 
addled, you know, still thinks he몭s a teapot... Next!몯 

A harassed-looking wizard was holding his small 
daughter tightly by the ankle while she flapped 
around his head using the immensely large, feathery 
wings that had sprouted right out the back of her 
romper suit. 

| 620Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Fourth floor,몯 said the witch in a bored voice, without 
asking, and the man disappeared through the double 
doors beside the desk, holding his daughter like an 
oddly shaped balloon. 몮Next!몯 

Mrs. Weasley moved forward to the desk. 

몮Hello,몯 she said. 몮My husband, Arthur Weasley, was 
supposed to be moved to a different ward this 
morning, could you tell us 멪 ?몯 

몮Arthur Weasley?몯 said the witch, running her finger 
down a long list in front of her. 몮Yes, first floor, 
second door on the right, Dai Llewellyn ward.몯 

몮Thank you,몯 said Mrs. Weasley. 몮Come on, you lot.몯 

They followed through the double doors and along the 
narrow corridor beyond, which was lined with more 
portraits of famous Healers and lit by crystal bubbles 
full of candles that floated up on the ceiling, looking 
like giant soapsuds. More witches and wizards in 
lime-green robes walked in and out of the doors they 
passed; a foul-smelling yellow gas wafted into the 
passageway as they passed one door, and every now 
and then they heard distant wailing. They climbed a 
flight of stairs and entered the 몮Creature-Induced 
Injuries몯 corridor, where the second door on the right 
bore the words 몮DANGEROUS몯 DAI LLEWELLYN 
WARD: SERIOUS BITES. Underneath this was a card 
in a brass holder on which had been handwritten 
Healer-in-Charge: Hippocrates Smethwyck, Trainee 
Healer: Augustus Pye. 

몮Well wait outside, Molly,몯 Tonks said. 몮Arthur won몭t 
want too many visitors at once... It ought to be just 
the family first.몯 



| 621Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Mad-Eye growled his approval of this idea and set 
himself with his back against the corridor wall, his 
magical eye spinning in all directions. Harry drew 
back too, but Mrs. Weasley reached out a hand and 
pushed him through the door, saying, 몮Don몭t be silly, 
Harry, Arthur wants to thank you...몯 

The ward was small and rather dingy as the only 
window was narrow and set high in the wall facing 
the door. Most of the light came from more shining 
crystal bubbles clustered in the middle of the ceiling. 
The walls were of panelled oak and there was a 
portrait of a rather vicious-looking wizard on the wall, 
captioned URQUHART RACKHARROW, 1612-1697, 
INVENTOR OF THE ENTRAIL- EXPELLING CURSE. 

There were only three patients. Mr. Weasley was 
occupying the bed at the far end of the ward beside 
the tiny window. Harry was pleased and relieved to 
see that he was propped up on several pillows and 
reading the Daily Prophet by the solitary ray of 
sunlight falling onto his bed. He looked around as 
they walked toward him and, seeing whom it was, 
beamed. 

몮Hello!몯 he called, throwing the Prophet aside. 몮Bill 
just left, Molly, had to get back to work, but he says 
he몭ll drop in on you later...몯 

몮How are you, Arthur?몯 asked Mrs. Weasley, bending 
down to kiss his cheek and looking anxiously into his 
face. 몮You몭re still looking a bit peaky...몯 

몮I feel absolutely fine,몯 said Mr. Weasley brightly, 
holding out his good arm to give Ginny a hug. 몮If they 
could only take the bandages off, I몭d be fit to go 
home.몯 

몮Why can몭t they take them off, Dad?몯 asked Fred. 

| 622Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Well, I start bleeding like mad every time they try,몯 
said Mr. Weasley cheerfully, reaching across for his 
wand, which lay on his bedside cabinet, and waving it 
so that six extra chairs appeared at his bedside to 
seat them all. 몮It seems there was some rather 
unusual kind of poison in that snake몭s fangs that 
keeps wounds open... They몭re sure they몭ll find an 
antidote, though, they say they몭ve had much worse 
cases than mine, and in the meantime I just have to 
keep taking a Blood-Replenishing Potion every hour. 
But that fellow over there,몯 he said, dropping his voice 
and nodding toward the bed opposite in which a man 
lay looking green and sickly and staring at the ceiling. 
몮Bitten by a werewolf, poor chap. No cure at all.몯 

몮A werewolf?몯 whispered Mrs. Weasley, looking 
alarmed. 몮Is he safe in a public ward? Shouldn몭t he be 
in a private room?몯 

몮It몭s two weeks till full moon,몯 Mr. Weasley reminded 
her quietly. 몮They몭ve been talking to him this 
morning, the Healers, you know, trying to persuade 
him he몭ll be able to lead an almost normal life. I said 
to him 멪 didn몭t mention names, of course 멪 but I 
said I knew a werewolf personally, very nice man, who 
finds the condition quite easy to manage...몯 

몮What did he say?몯 asked George. 

몮Said he몭d give me another bite if I didn몭t shut up,몯 
said Mr. Weasley sadly. 몮And that woman over there,몯 
he indicated the only other occupied bed, which was 
right beside the door, 몮won몭t tell the Healers what bit 
her, which makes us all think it must have been 
something she was handling illegally. Whatever it was 
took a real chunk out of her leg, very nasty smell 
when they take off the dressings.몯 



| 623Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮So, you going to tell us what happened, Dad?몯 asked 
Fred, pulling his chair closer to the bed. 

몮Well, you already know, don몭t you?몯 said Mr. 

Weasley, with a significant smile at Harry. 몮It몭s very 
simple 멪 I몭d had a very long day, dozed off, got 
sneaked up on, and bitten.몯 

몮Is it in the Prophet, you being attacked?몯 asked Fred, 
indicating the newspaper Mr. Weasley had cast aside. 

몮No, of course not,몯 said Mr. Weasley, with a slightly 
bitter smile, 몮the Ministry wouldn몭t want everyone to 
know a dirty great serpent got 멪 몯 

몮Arthur!몯 said Mrs. Weasley warningly. 

몮 멪 got 멪 er 멪 me,몯 Mr. Weasley said hastily, though 
Harry was quite sure that was not what he had meant 
to say. 

몮So where were you when it happened, Dad?몯 asked 
George. 

몮That몭s my business,몯 said Mr. Weasley, though with 
a small smile. He snatched up the Daily Prophet, 
shook it open again and said, 몮I was just reading 
about Willy Widdershins몭s arrest when you arrived. 
You know Willy turned out to be behind those 
regurgitating toilets last summer? One of his jinxes 
backfired, the toilet exploded, and they found him 
lying unconscious in the wreckage covered from head 
to foot in 멪 몯 

몮When you say you were 몬on duty,몭 몯 Fred interrupted 
in a low voice, 몮what were you doing?몯 



| 624Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮You heard your father,몯 whispered Mrs. Weasley, 몮we 
are not discussing this here! Go on about Willy 
Widdershins, Arthur 멪 몯 

몮Well, don몭t ask me how, but he actually got off on the 
toilet charge,몯 said Mr. Weasley grimly. 몮I can only 
suppose gold changed hands 멪 몯 

몮You were guarding it, weren몭t you?몯 said George 
quietly. 몮The weapon? The thing You-Know- Who몭s 
after?몯 

몮George, be quiet!몯 snapped Mrs. Weasley. 

몮Anyway,몯 said Mr. Weasley in a raised voice, 몮this 
time Willy몭s been caught selling biting doorknobs to 
Muggles, and I don몭t think he몭ll be able to worm his 
way out of it because according to this article, two 
Muggles have lost fingers and are now in St. Mungo몭s 
for emergency bone regrowth and memory 
modification. Just think of it, Muggles in St. Mungo몭s! 
I wonder which ward they몭re in?몯 

And he looked eagerly around as though hoping to 
see a signpost. 

몮Didn몭t you say You-Know- Who몭s got a snake, Harry?몯 
asked Fred, looking at his father for a reaction. 몮A 
massive one? You saw it the night he returned, didn몭t 
you?몯 

몮That몭s enough,몯 said Mrs. Weasley crossly. 몮Mad-Eye 
and Tonks are outside, Arthur, they want to come 
and see you. And you lot can wait outside,몯 she added 
to her children and Harry. 몮You can come and say 
good-bye afterward. Go on...몯 



| 625Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




They trooped back into the corridor. Mad-Eye and 
Tonks went in and closed the door of the ward behind 
them. Fred raised his eyebrows. 

몮Fine,몯 he said coolly, rummaging in his pockets, 몮be 
like that. Don몭t tell us anything.몯 

몮Looking for these?몯 said George, holding out what 
looked like a tangle of flesh-colored string. 

몮You read my mind,몯 said Fred, grinning. 몮Let몭s see if 
St. Mungo몭s puts Imperturbable Charms on its ward 
doors, shall we?몯 

He and George disentangled the string and separated 
five Extendable Ears from each other. Fred and 
George handed them around. Harry hesitated to take 
one. 

몮Go on, Harry, take it! You saved Dad몭s life, if 
anyone몭s got the right to eavesdrop on him it몭s you...몯 

Grinning in spite of himself, Harry took the end of the 
string and inserted it into his ear as the twins had 
done. 

몮Okay, go!몯 Fred whispered. 

The flesh-colored strings wriggled like long skinny 
worms, then snaked under the door. For a few 
seconds Harry could hear nothing, then he heard 
Tonks whispering as clearly as though she were 
standing right beside him. 

"... they searched the whole area but they couldn몭t 
find the snake anywhere, it just seems to have 
vanished after it attacked you, Arthur... But You- 
Know-Who can몭t have expected a snake to get in, can 
he?몯 

| 626Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I reckon he sent it as a lookout,몯 growled Moody, 몮 
몭cause he몭s not had any luck so far, has he? No, I 
reckon he몭s trying to get a clearer picture of what he몭s 
facing and if Arthur hadn몭t been there the beast 
would몭ve had much more time to look around. So 
Potter says he saw it all happen?몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Mrs. Weasley. She sounded rather uneasy. 
몮You know, Dumbledore seems almost to have been 
waiting for Harry to see something like this...몯 

몮Yeah, well,몯 said Moody, 몮there몭s something funny 
about the Potter kid, we all know that.몯 

몮Dumbledore seemed worried about Harry when I 
spoke to him this morning,몯 whispered Mrs. Weasley. 

몮 몭Course he몭s worried,몯 growled Moody. 몮The boy몭s 
seeing things from inside You-Know- Who몭s snake... 
Obviously, Potter doesn몭t realize what that means, but 
if You- Know- Who몭s possessing him 멪 몯 

Harry pulled the Extendable Ear out of his own, his 
heart hammering very fast and heat rushing up his 
face. He looked around at the others. They were all 
staring at him, the strings still trailing from their 
ears, looking suddenly fearful. 



| 627Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






CHRISTMAS ON THE CLOSED WARD 

Was this why Dumbledore would no longer meet 
Harry몭s eyes? Did he expect to see Voldemort staring 
out of them, afraid, perhaps, that their vivid green 
might turn suddenly to scarlet, with catlike slits for 
pupils? Harry remembered how the snakelike face of 
Voldemort had once forced itself out of the back of 
Professor Quirrell몭s head, and he ran his hand over 
the back of his own, wondering what it would feel like 
if Voldemort burst out of his skull... 

He felt dirty, contaminated, as though he were 
carrying some deadly germ, unworthy to sit on the 
underground train back from the hospital with 
innocent, clean people whose minds and bodies were 
free of the taint of Voldemort... He had not merely 
seen the snake, he had been the snake, he knew it 
now. . . 

And then a truly terrible thought occurred to him, a 
memory bobbing to the surface of his mind, one that 
made his insides writhe and squirm like serpents... 



| 628Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



몮What몭s he after apart from followers?몯 

몮Stuff he can only get by stealth ... like a weapon. 
Something he didn몭t have last time.몯 

I몭m the weapon, Harry thought, and it was as though 
poison were pumping through his veins, chilling him, 
bringing him out in a sweat as he swayed with the 
train through the dark tunnel. I몭m the one Voldemort몭s 
trying to use, that몭s why they몭ve got guards around me 
everywhere I go, it몭s not for my protection, it몭s for other 
people몭s, only it몭s not working, they can몭t have 
someone on me all the time at Hogwarts... I did attack 
Mr. Weasley last night, it was me, Voldemort made me 
do it and he could be inside me, listening to my 
thoughts right now... 

몮Are you all right, Harry, dear?몯 whispered Mrs. 
Weasley, leaning across Ginny to speak to him as the 
train rattled along through its dark tunnel. 몮You don몭t 
look very well. Are you feeling sick?몯 

They were all watching him. He shook his head 
violently and stared up at an advertisement for home 
insurance. 

몮Harry, dear, are you sure you몭re all right?몯 said Mrs. 
Weasley in a worried voice, as they walked around the 
unkempt patch of grass in the middle of Grimmauld 
Place. 몮You look ever so pale... Are you sure you slept 
this morning? You go upstairs to bed right now, and 
you can have a couple of hours몭 sleep before dinner, 
all right?몯 

He nodded; here was a ready-made excuse not to talk 
to any of the others, which was precisely what he 
wanted, so when she opened the front door he 
proceeded straight past the troll몭s leg umbrella stand 



| 629Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




and up the stairs and hurried into his and Ron몭s 
bedroom. 

Here he began to pace up and down, past the two 
beds and Phineas Nigellus몭s empty portrait, his brain 
teeming and seething with questions and ever more 
dreadful ideas... 

How had he become a snake? Perhaps he was an 
Animagus... No, he couldn몭t be, he would know... 
perhaps Voldemort was an Animagus... Yes, thought 
Harry, that would fit, he would turn into a snake of 
course ... and when he몭s possessing me, then we both 
transform... That still doesn몭t explain how come I got to 
London and back to my bed in the space of about five 
minutes, though... But then Voldemort몭 s about the most 
powerful wizard in the world, apart from Dumbledore, 
it몭s probably no problem at all to him to transport 
people like that... 

And then, with a terrible stab of panic he thought, but 
this is insane 멪 if Voldemort몭s possessing me, I몭m 
giving him a clear view into the headquarters of the 
Order of the Phoenix right now! He몭ll know who몭s in the 
Order and where Sirius is ... and I몭ve heard loads of 
stuff I shouldn몭t have, everything Sirius told me the 
first night I was here... 

There was only one thing for it: He would have to 
leave Grimmauld Place straightaway. He would spend 
Christmas at Hogwarts without the others, which 
would keep them safe over the holidays at least... But 
no, that wouldn몭t do, there were still plenty of people 
at Hogwarts to maim and injure, what if it was 
Seamus, Dean, or Neville next time? He stopped his 
pacing and stood staring at Phineas Nigellus몭s empty 
frame. A leaden sensation was settling in the pit of his 
stomach. He had no alternative: He was going to have 



| 630Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




to return to Privet Drive, cut himself off from other 
wizards entirely... 



Well, if he had to do it, he thought, there was no point 
hanging around. Trying with all his might not to think 
how the Dursleys were going to react when they found 
him on their doorstep six months earlier than they 
had expected, he strode over to his trunk, slammed 
the lid shut and locked it, then glanced around 
automatically for Hedwig before remembering that she 
was still at Hogwarts 멪 well, her cage would be one 
less thing to carry 멪 he seized one end of his trunk 
and had dragged it halfway toward the door when a 
sneaky voice said, 몮Running away, are we?몯 

He looked around. Phineas Nigellus had appeared 
upon the canvas of his portrait and was leaning 
against the frame, watching Harry with an amused 
expression on his face. 

몮Not running away, no,몯 said Harry shortly, dragging 
his trunk a few more feet across the room. 

몮I thought,몯 said Phineas Nigellus, stroking his 
pointed beard, 몮that to belong in Gryffindor House 
you were supposed to be brave? It looks to me as 
though you would have been better off in my own 
house. We Slytherins are brave, yes, but not stupid. 
For instance, given the choice, we will always choose 
to save our own necks.몯 

몮It몭s not my own neck I몭m saving,몯 said Harry tersely, 
tugging the trunk over a patch of particularly uneven, 
moth-eaten carpet right in front of the door. 

몮Oh I see,몯 said Phineas Nigellus, still stroking his 
beard. 몮This is no cowardly flight 멪 you are being 
noble.몯 

| 631Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry ignored him. His hand was on the doorknob 
when Phineas Nigellus said lazily, 몮I have a message 
for you from Albus Dumbledore.몯 

Harry spun around. 

몮What is it?몯 

몮Stay where you are.몯 

몮I haven몭t moved!몯 said Harry, his hand still upon the 
doorknob. 몮So what몭s the message?몯 

몮I have just given it to you, dolt,몯 said Phineas 
Nigellus smoothly. 몮Dumbledore says, 몬Stay where 
you are. 몭 몯 

몮Why?몯 said Harry eagerly, dropping the end of his 
trunk. 몮Why does he want me to stay? What else did 
he say?몯 

몮Nothing whatsoever,몯 said Phineas Nigellus, raising a 
thin black eyebrow as though he found Harry 
impertinent. 

Harry몭s temper rose to the surface like a snake 
rearing from long grass. He was exhausted, he was 
confused beyond measure, he had experienced terror, 
relief, and then terror again in the last twelve hours, 
and still Dumbledore did not want to talk to him! 

몮So that몭s it, is it?몯 he said loudly. 몮Stay there? That몭s 
all anyone could tell me after I got attacked by those 
dementors too! Just stay put while the grown-ups 
sort it out, Harry! We won몭t bother telling you 
anything, though, because your tiny little brain might 
not be able to cope with it!몯 



| 632Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮You know,몯 said Phineas Nigellus, even more loudly 
than Harry, 몮this is precisely why I loathed being a 
teacher! Young people are so infernally convinced that 
they are absolutely right about everything. Has it not 
occurred to you, my poor puffed-up popinjay, that 
there might be an excellent reason why the 
headmaster of Hogwarts is not confiding every tiny 
detail of his plans to you? Have you never paused, 
while feeling hard-done-by, to note that following 
Dumbledore 몭s orders has never yet led you into harm? 
No. No, like all young people, you are quite sure that 
you alone feel and think, you alone recognize danger, 
you alone are the only one clever enough to realize 
what the Dark Lord may be planning...몯 

몮He is planning something to do with me, then?몯 said 
Harry swiftly. 

몮Did I say that?몯 said Phineas Nigellus, idly examining 
his silk gloves. 몮Now, if you will excuse me, I have 
better things to do than to listen to adolescent 
agonizing... Good day to you...몯 

And he strolled into his frame and out of sight. 

몮Fine, go then!몯 Harry bellowed at the empty frame. 
몮And tell Dumbledore thanks for nothing!몯 

The empty canvas remained silent. Fuming, Harry 
dragged his trunk back to the foot of his bed, then 
threw himself facedown upon the moth-eaten covers, 
his eyes shut, his body heavy and aching. . . 

He felt he had journeyed miles and miles... It seemed 
impossible that less than twenty-four hours ago Cho 
Chang had been approaching him under the 
mistletoe... He was so tired... He was scared to sleep 
... yet he did not know how long he could fight it... 
Dumbledore had told him to stay... That must mean 
| 633Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




he was allowed to sleep... But he was scared... What if 
it happened again ... ? 

He was sinking into shadows... 

It was as though a film in his head had been waiting 
to start. He was walking down a deserted corridor 
toward a plain black door, past rough stone walls, 
torches, and an open doorway onto a flight of stone 
steps leading downstairs on the left... 

He reached the black door but could not open it... He 
stood gazing at it, desperate for entry. . . Something he 
wanted with all his heart lay beyond... A prize beyond 
his dreams... If only his scar would stop prickling ... 
then he would be able to think more clearly. . . 

몮Harry,몯 said Ron몭s voice, from far, far away, 몮Mum 
says dinner몭s ready, but she몭ll save you something if 
you want to stay in bed...몯 

Harry opened his eyes, but Ron had already left the 
room. 

He doesn몭t want to be on his own with me, Harry 
thought. Not after what he heard Moody say ... 

He supposed none of them would want him there 
anymore now that they knew what was inside him... 

He would not go down to dinner; he would not inflict 
his company upon them. He turned over onto his 
other side and after a while dropped back off to sleep, 
waking much later in the early hours of the morning, 
with his insides aching with hunger, and Ron snoring 
in the next bed. Squinting around the room he saw 
the dark outline of Phineas Nigellus standing again in 
his portrait and it occurred to Harry that Dumbledore 



| 634Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




had probably set Phineas Nigellus to watch over him, 
in case he attacked somebody else. 

The feeling of being unclean intensified. He half 
wished he had not obeyed Dumbledore and stayed... 

If this was how life was going to be in Grimmauld 
Place from now on, maybe he would be better off in 
Privet Drive after all. 

Everybody else spent the following morning putting 
up Christmas decorations. Harry could not remember 
Sirius ever being in such a good mood; he was 
actually singing carols, apparently delighted that he 
was to have company over Christmas. Harry could 
hear his voice echoing up through the floor in the cold 
and empty drawing room where he was sitting alone, 
watching the sky outside the windows growing whiter, 
threatening snow, all the time feeling a savage 
pleasure that he was giving the others the 
opportunity to keep talking about him, as they were 
bound to be doing. When he heard Mrs. Weasley 
calling his name softly up the stairs around 
lunchtime he retreated farther upstairs and ignored 
her. 

It was around six o몭clock in the evening that the 
doorbell rang and Mrs. Black started screaming 
again. Assuming that Mundungus or some other 
Order member had come to call, Harry merely settled 
himself more comfortably against the wall of 
Buckbeak the hippogriff몭s room where he was hiding, 
trying to ignore how hungry he felt as he fed 
Buckbeak dead rats. It came as a slight shock when 
somebody hammered hard on the door a few minutes 
later. 

몮I know you몭re in there,몯 said Hermione몭s voice. 몮Will 
you please come out? I want to talk to you.몯 



| 635Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮What are you doing here?몯 Harry asked her, pulling 
open the door, as Buckbeak resumed his scratching 
at the straw-strewn floor for any fragments of rat he 
might have dropped. 몮I thought you were skiing with 
your mum and dad.몯 

몮Well, to tell the truth, skiing몭s not really my thing,몯 
said Hermione. 몮So I몭ve come for Christmas.몯 There 
was snow in her hair and her face was pink with cold. 
몮But don몭t tell Ron that, I told him it몭s really good 
because he kept laughing so much. Anyway, Mum 
and Dad are a bit disappointed, but I몭ve told them 
that everyone who몭s serious about the exams is 
staying at Hogwarts to study. They want me to do 
well, they몭ll understand. Anyway,몯 she said briskly, 
몮let몭s go to your bedroom, Ron몭s mum몭s lit a fire in 
there and she몭s sent up sandwiches.몯 

Harry followed her back to the second floor. When he 
entered the bedroom he was rather surprised to see 
both Ron and Ginny waiting for them, sitting on Ron몭s 
bed. 

몮I came on the Knight Bus,몯 said Hermione airily, 
pulling off her jacket before Harry had time to speak. 
몮Dumbledore told me what had happened first thing 
this morning, but I had to wait for term to end 
officially before setting off. Umbridge is already livid 
that you lot disappeared right under her nose, even 
though Dumbledore told her Mr. Weasley was in St. 
Mungo몭s, and he몭d given you all permission to visit. So 



She sat down next to Ginny, and the two girls and 
Ron looked up at Harry. 

몮How몭re you feeling?몯 asked Hermione. 

몮Fine,몯 said Harry stiffly. 

| 636Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Oh, don몭t lie, Harry,몯 she said impatiently. 몮Ron and 
Ginny say you몭ve been hiding from everyone since you 
got back from St. Mungo몭s.몯 

몮They do, do they?몯 said Harry, glaring at Ron and 
Ginny. Ron looked down at his feet but Ginny seemed 
quite unabashed. 

몮Well, you have!몯 she said. 몮And you won몭t look at any 
of us!몯 

몮It몭s you lot who won몭t look at me!몯 said Harry angrily. 

몮Maybe you몭re taking it in turns to look and keep 
missing each other,몯 suggested Hermione, the corners 
of her mouth twitching. 

몮Very funny,몯 snapped Harry, turning away. 

몮Oh, stop feeling all misunderstood,몯 said Hermione 
sharply. 몮Look, the others have told me what you 
overheard last night on the Extendable Ears 멪 몯 

몮Yeah?몯 growled Harry, his hands deep in his pockets 
as he watched the snow now falling thickly outside. 
몮All been talking about me, have you? Well, I몭m 
getting used to it...몯 

몮We wanted to talk to you, Harry,몯 said Ginny, 몮but as 
you몭ve been hiding ever since we got back 멪 몯 

몮I didn몭t want anyone to talk to me,몯 said Harry, who 
was feeling more and more nettled. 

몮Well, that was a bit stupid of you,몯 said Ginny 
angrily, 몮seeing as you don몭t know anyone but me 
who몭s been possessed by You-Know-Who, and I can 
tell you how it feels.몯 



| 637Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry remained quite still as the impact of these 
words hit him. Then he turned on the spot to face 
her. 



몮I forgot,몯 he said. 

몮Lucky you,몯 said Ginny coolly. 

몮I몭m sorry,몯 Harry said, and he meant it. 몮So ... so do 
you think I몭m being possessed, then?몯 

몮Well, can you remember everything you몭ve been 
doing?몯 Ginny asked. 몮Are there big blank periods 
where you don몭t know what you몭ve been up to?몯 

Harry racked his brains. 

몮No,몯 he said. 

몮Then You-Know-Who hasn몭t ever possessed you,몯 
said Ginny simply. 몮When he did it to me, I couldn몭t 
remember what I몭d been doing for hours at a time. I몭d 
find myself somewhere and not know how I got there.몯 

Harry hardly dared believe her, yet his heart was 
lightening almost in spite of himself. 

몮That dream I had about your dad and the snake, 
though 멪 몯 

몮Harry, you몭ve had these dreams before,몯 Hermione 
said. 몮You had flashes of what Voldemort was up to 
last year.몯 

몮This was different,몯 said Harry, shaking his head. 몮I 
was inside that snake. It was like I was the snake... 
What if Voldemort somehow transported me to 
London 멪 ?몯 

| 638Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮One day,몯 said Hermione, sounding thoroughly 
exasperated, 몮you몭ll read Hogwarts, A History, and 
perhaps that will remind you that you can몭t Apparate 
or Disapparate inside Hogwarts. Even Voldemort 
couldn몭t just make you fly out of your dormitory, 
Harry.몯 

몮You didn몭t leave your bed, mate,몯 said Ron. 몮I saw 
you thrashing around in your sleep about a minute 
before we could wake you up...몯 

Harry started pacing up and down the room again, 
thinking. What they were all saying was not only 
comforting, it made sense... Without really thinking 
he took a sandwich from the plate on the bed and 
crammed it hungrily into his mouth... 

I몭m not the weapon after all, thought Harry. His heart 
swelled with happiness and relief, and he felt like 
joining in as they heard Sirius tramping past their 
door toward Buckbeak몭s room, singing 몮God Rest Ye 
Merry, Hippogriffs몯 at the top of his voice. 

How could he have dreamed of returning to Privet 
Drive for Christmas? Sirius몭s delight at having the 
house full again, and especially at having Harry back, 
was infectious. He was no longer their sullen host of 
the summer; now he seemed determined that 
everyone should enjoy themselves as much, if not 
more, than they would have done at Hogwarts, and he 
worked tirelessly in the run-up to Christmas Day, 
cleaning and decorating with their help, so that by 
the time they all went to bed on Christmas Eve the 
house was barely recognizable. The tarnished 
chandeliers were no longer hung with cobwebs but 
with garlands of holly and gold and silver streamers; 
magical snow glittered in heaps over the threadbare 
carpets; a great Christmas tree, obtained by 
Mundungus and decorated with live fairies, blocked 
| 639Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Sirius몭s family tree from view; and even the stuffed elf 
heads on the hall wall wore Father Christmas hats 
and beards. 

Harry awoke on Christmas morning to find a stack of 
presents at the foot of his bed and Ron already 
halfway through opening his own, rather larger, pile. 

몮Good haul this year,몯 he informed Harry through a 
cloud of paper. 몮Thanks for the Broom Compass, it몭s 
excellent, beats Hermione몭s 멪 she몭s got me a 
homework planner 멪 몯 

Harry sorted through his presents and found one with 
Hermione몭s handwriting on it. She had given him too 
a book that resembled a diary, except that it said 
things like 몮Do it today or later you몭ll pay\몯 every time 
he opened a page. 

Sirius and Lupin had given Harry a set of excellent 
books entitled Practical Defensive Magic and Its Use 
Against the Dark Arts, which had superb, moving 
color illustrations of all the counterjinxes and hexes it 
described. Harry flicked through the first volume 
eagerly; he could see it was going to be highly useful 
in his plans for the D.A. Hagrid had sent a furry 
brown wallet that had fangs, which were presumably 
supposed to be an antitheft device, but unfortunately 
prevented Harry putting any money in without getting 
his fingers ripped off. Tonks몭s present was a small, 
working model of a Firebolt, which Harry watched fly 
around the room, wishing he still had his full-size 
version; Ron had given him an enormous box of 
Every-Flavor Beans; Mr. and Mrs. Weasley the usual 
hand-knitted jumper and some mince pies; and 
Dobby, a truly dreadful painting that Harry suspected 
had been done by the elf himself. He had just turned 
it upside down to see whether it looked better that 



| 640Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




way when, with a loud crack, Fred and George 
Apparated at the foot of his bed. 



몮Merry Christmas,몯 said George. 몮Don몭t go downstairs 
for a bit.몯 

몮Why not?몯 said Ron. 

몮Mum몭s crying again,몯 said Fred heavily. 몮Percy sent 
back his Christmas jumper.몯 

몮Without a note,몯 added George. 몮Hasn몭t asked how 
Dad is or visited him or anything...몯 

몮We tried to comfort her,몯 said Fred, moving around 
the bed to look at Harry몭s portrait. 몮Told her Percy몭s 
nothing more than a humongous pile of rat droppings 



몮 멪 didn몭t work,몯 said George, helping himself to a 
Chocolate Frog. 몮So Lupin took over. Best let him 
cheer her up before we go down for breakfast, I 
reckon.몯 

몮What몭s that supposed to be anyway?몯 asked Fred, 
squinting at Dobby몭s painting. 몮Looks like a gibbon 
with two black eyes.몯 

몮It몭s Harry!몯 said George, pointing at the back of the 
picture. 몮Says so on the back!몯 

몮Good likeness,몯 said Fred, grinning. Harry threw his 
new homework diary at him; it hit the wall opposite 
and fell to the floor where it said happily, 몮If you몭ve 
dotted the i몭s and crossed the t몭s then you may do 
whatever you pleasel몯 

They got up and dressed; they could hear various 
inhabitants of the house calling 몮Merry Christmas몯 to 

| 641Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




each other. On their way downstairs they met 
Hermione. 몮Thanks for the book, Harry!몯 she said 
happily. 몮I몭ve been wanting that New Theory of 
Numerology for ages! And that perfume is really 
unusual, Ron.몯 

몮No problem,몯 said Ron. 몮Who몭s that for anyway?몯 he 
added, nodding at the neatly wrapped present she 
was carrying. 

몮Kreacher,몯 said Hermione brightly. 

몮It had better not be clothes!몯 said Ron warningly. 
몮You know what Sirius said, Kreacher knows too 
much, we can몭t set him free!몯 

몮It isn몭t clothes,몯 said Hermione, 몮although if I had my 
way I몭d certainly give him something to wear other 
than that filthy old rag. No, it몭s a patchwork quilt, I 
thought it would brighten up his bedroom.몯 

몮What bedroom?몯 said Harry, dropping his voice to a 
whisper as they were passing the portrait of Sirius몭s 
mother. 

몮Well, Sirius says it몭s not so much a bedroom, more a 
kind of 멪 den,몯 said Hermione. 몮Apparently he sleeps 
under the boiler in that cupboard off the kitchen.몯 

Mrs. Weasley was the only person in the basement 
when they arrived there. She was standing at the 
stove and sounded as though she had a bad head 
cold when she wished them Merry Christmas, and 
they all averted their eyes. 

몮So, this is Kreacher몭s bedroom?몯 said Ron, strolling 
over to a dingy door in the corner opposite the pantry 
which Harry had never seen open. 



| 642Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Yes,몯 said Hermione, now sounding a little nervous. 
몮Er ... I think we몭d better knock ...몯 

Ron rapped the door with his knuckles but there was 
no reply. 

몮He must be sneaking around upstairs,몯 he said, and 
without further ado pulled open the door. 몮Urgh.몯 

Harry peered inside. Most of the cupboard was taken 
up with a very large and old-fashioned boiler, but in 
the foot몭s space underneath the pipes Kreacher had 
made himself something that looked like a nest. A 
jumble of assorted rags and smelly old blankets were 
piled on the floor and the small dent in the middle of 
it showed where Kreacher curled up to sleep every 
night. Here and there among the material were stale 
bread crusts and moldy old bits of cheese. In a far 
corner glinted small objects and coins that Harry 
guessed Kreacher had saved, magpielike, from 
Sirius몭s purge of the house, and he had also managed 
to retrieve the silver-framed family photographs that 
Sirius had thrown away over the summer. Their glass 
might be shattered, but still the little black-and-white 
people inside them peered haughtily up at him, 
including 멪 he felt a little jolt in his stomach 멪 the 
dark, heavy-lidded woman whose trial he had 
witnessed in Dumbledore몭s Pensieve: Bellatrix 
Lestrange. By the looks of it, hers was Kreacher 몭s 
favorite photograph; he had placed it to the fore of all 
the others and had mended the glass clumsily with 
Spellotape. 

몮I think I몭ll just leave his present here,몯 said 
Hermione, laying the package neatly in the middle of 
the depression in the rags and blankets and closing 
the door quietly. 몮He몭ll find it later, that몭ll be fine...몯 



| 643Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Come to think of it,몯 said Sirius, emerging from the 
pantry carrying a large turkey as they closed the 
cupboard door, 몮has anyone actually seen Kreacher 
lately?몯 

몮I haven몭t seen him since the night we came back 
here,몯 said Harry. 몮You were ordering him out of the 
kitchen.몯 

몮Yeah ...몯 said Sirius, frowning. 몮You know, I think 
that몭s the last time I saw him, too... He must be 
hiding upstairs somewhere...몯 

몮He couldn몭t have left, could he?몯 said Harry. 몮I mean, 
when you said 몬out,몭 maybe he thought you meant, get 
out of the house?몯 

몮No, no, house-elves can몭t leave unless they몭re given 
clothes, they몭re tied to their family몭s house,몯 said 
Sirius. 

몮They can leave the house if they really want to,몯 

Harry contradicted him. 몮Dobby did, he left the 
Malfoys몭 to give me warnings two years ago. He had to 
punish himself afterward, but he still managed it.몯 

Sirius looked slightly disconcerted for a moment, then 
said, 몮I몭ll look for him later, I expect I몭ll find him 
upstairs crying his eyes out over my mother몭s old 
bloomers or something... Of course, he might have 
crawled into the airing cupboard and died... But I 
mustn몭t get my hopes up...몯 

Fred, George, and Ron laughed; Hermione, however, 
looked reproachful. 

Once they had had their Christmas lunch, the 
Weasleys and Harry and Hermione were planning to 
pay Mr. Weasley another visit, escorted by Mad-Eye 

| 644Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




and Lupin. Mundungus turned up in time for 
Christmas pudding and trifle, having managed to 
몮borrow몯 a car for the occasion, as the Underground 
did not run on Christmas Day. The car, which Harry 
doubted very much had been taken with the 
knowledge or consent of its owner, had had a similar 
Enlarging Spell put upon it as the Weasleys몭 old Ford 
Anglia; although normally proportioned outside, ten 
people with Mundungus driving were able to fit into it 
quite comfortably. Mrs. Weasley hesitated at the point 
of getting inside; Harry knew that her disapproval of 
Mundungus was battling with her dislike of traveling 
without magic; finally the cold outside and her 
children몭s pleading triumphed, and she settled herself 
into the backseat between Fred and Bill with good 
grace. 

The journey to St. Mungo몭s was quite quick, as there 
was very little traffic on the roads. A small trickle of 
witches and wizards were creeping furtively up the 
otherwise deserted street to visit the hospital. Harry 
and the others got out of the car, and Mundungus 
drove off around the corner to wait for them; they 
strolled casually toward the window where the 
dummy in green nylon stood, then, one by one, 
stepped through the glass. 

The reception area looked pleasantly festive: The 
crystal orbs that illuminated St. Mungo몭s had been 
turned to red and gold so that they became gigantic, 
glowing Christmas baubles; holly hung around every 
doorway, and shining white Christmas trees covered 
in magical snow and icicles glittered in every corner, 
each topped with a gleaming gold star. It was less 
crowded than the last time they had been there, 
although halfway across the room Harry found 
himself shunted aside by a witch with a walnut 
jammed up her left nostril. 



| 645Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Family argument, eh?몯 smirked the blonde witch 
behind the desk. 몮You몭re the third I몭ve seen today ... 
Spell Damage, fourth floor ...몯 

They found Mr. Weasley propped up in bed with the 
remains of his turkey dinner on a tray in his lap and 
a rather sheepish expression on his face. 

몮Everything all right, Arthur?몯 asked Mrs. Weasley, 
after they had all greeted Mr. Weasley and handed 
over their presents. 

몮Fine, fine,몯 said Mr. Weasley, a little too heartily. 

몮You 멪 er 멪 haven몭t seen Healer Smethwyck, have 
you?몯 

몮No,몯 said Mrs. Weasley suspiciously, 몮why?몯 

몮Nothing, nothing,몯 said Mr. Weasley airily, starting to 
unwrap his pile of gifts. 몮Well, everyone had a good 
day? What did you all get for Christmas? Oh, Harry 멪 
this is absolutely wonderful 멪 몯 

For he had just opened Harry몭s gift of fuse-wire and 
screwdrivers. Mrs. Weasley did not seem entirely 
satisfied with Mr. Weasley몭s answer. As her husband 
leaned over to shake Harry몭s hand, she peered at the 
bandaging under his nightshirt. 

몮Arthur,몯 she said, with a snap in her voice like a 
mousetrap, 몮you몭ve had your bandages changed. Why 
have you had your bandages changed a day early, 
Arthur? They told me they wouldn몭t need doing until 
tomorrow.몯 

몮What?몯 said Mr. Weasley, looking rather frightened 
and pulling the bed covers higher up his chest. 몮No, 
no 멪 it몭s nothing 멪 it몭s 멪 I 멪 몯 



| 646Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He seemed to deflate under Mrs. Weasley몭s piercing 
gaze. 

몮Well 멪 now don몭t get upset, Molly, but Augustus Pye 
had an idea... He몭s the Trainee Healer, you know, 
lovely young chap and very interested in . . . um . . . 
complementary medicine... I mean, some of these old 
Muggle remedies ... well, they몭re called stitches, Molly, 
and they work very well on 멪 on Muggle wounds 멪 몯 

Mrs. Weasley let out an ominous noise somewhere 
between a shriek and a snarl. Lupin strolled away 
from the bed and over to the werewolf, who had no 
visitors and was looking rather wistfully at the crowd 
around Mr. Weasley; Bill muttered something about 
getting himself a cup of tea and Fred and George leapt 
up to accompany him, grinning. 

몮Do you mean to tell me,몯 said Mrs. Weasley, her 
voice growing louder with every word and apparently 
unaware that her fellow visitors were scurrying for 
cover, 몮that you have been messing about with 
Muggle remedies?몯 

몮Not messing about, Molly, dear,몯 said Mr. Weasley 
imploringly. 몮It was just 멪 just something Pye and I 
thought we몭d try 멪 only, most unfortunately 멪 well, 
with these particular kinds of wounds 멪 it doesn몭t 
seem to work as well as we몭d hoped 멪 몯 

몮Meaning?몯 

몮Well ... well, I don몭t know whether you know what 멪 
what stitches are?몯 

몮It sounds as though you몭ve been trying to sew your 
skin back together,몯 said Mrs. Weasley with a snort of 
mirthless laughter, 몮but even you, Arthur, wouldn몭t 
be that stupid 멪 몯 

| 647Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I fancy a cup of tea too,몯 said Harry, jumping to his 
feet. 



Hermione, Ron, and Ginny almost sprinted to the 
door with him. As it swung closed behind them, they 
heard Mrs. Weasley shriek, 몮WHAT DO YOU MEAN, 
THAT몭S THE GENERAL IDEA?몯 

몮Typical Dad,몯 said Ginny, shaking her head as they 
set off up the corridor. 몮Stitches ... I ask you ...몯 

몮Well, you know, they do work well on non-magical 
wounds,몯 said Hermione fairly. 몮I suppose something 
in that snake몭s venom dissolves them or something... 
I wonder where the tearoom is?몯 

몮Fifth floor,몯 said Harry, remembering the sign over 
the Welcome Witch몭s desk. 

They walked along the corridor through a set of 
double doors and found a rickety staircase lined with 
more portraits of brutal-looking Healers. As they 
climbed it, the various Healers called out to them, 
diagnosing odd complaints and suggesting horrible 
remedies. Ron was seriously affronted when a 
medieval wizard called out that he clearly had a bad 
case of spattergroit. 

몮And what몭s that supposed to be?몯 he asked angrily, 
as the Healer pursued him through six more 
portraits, shoving the occupants out of the way. 

몮 Tis a most grievous affliction of the skin, young 
master, that will leave you pockmarked and more 
gruesome even than you are now 멪 몯 

몮Watch who you몭re calling gruesome!몯 said Ron, his 
ears turning red. 



| 648Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮The only remedy is to take the liver of a toad, bind it 
tight about your throat, stand naked by the full moon 
in a barrel of eels몭 eyes 멪 몯 

몮I have not got spattergroit!몯 

몮But the unsightly blemishes upon your visage, young 
master 멪 몯 

몮They몭re freckles!몯 said Ron furiously. 몮Now get back 
in your own picture and leave me alone!몯 

He rounded on the others, who were all keeping 
determinedly straight faces. 

몮What floor몭s this?몯 

몮I think it몭s the fifth,몯 said Hermione. 

몮Nah, it몭s the fourth,몯 said Harry, 몮one more 멪 몯 

But as he stepped onto the landing he came to an 
abrupt halt, staring at the small window set into the 
double doors that marked the start of a corridor 
signposted SPELL DAMAGE. A man was peering out 
at them all with his nose pressed against the glass. 

He had wavy blond hair, bright blue eyes, and a 
broad vacant smile that revealed dazzlingly white 
teeth. 

몮Blimey!몯 said Ron, also staring at the man. 

몮Oh my goodness,몯 said Hermione suddenly, sounding 
breathless. 몮Professor Lockhart!몯 

Their ex-Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher 
pushed open the doors and moved toward them, 
wearing a long lilac dressing gown. 



| 649Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Well, hello there!몯 he said. 몮I expect you몭d like my 
autograph, would you?몯 

몮Hasn몭t changed much, has he?몯 Harry muttered to 
Ginny, who grinned. 

몮Er 멪 how are you, Professor?몯 said Ron, sounding 
slightly guilty. It had been Ron몭s malfunctioning wand 
that had damaged Professor Lockhart몭s memory so 
badly that he had landed here in the first place, 
though, as Lockhart had been attempting to 
permanently wipe Harry and Ron몭s memories at the 
time, Harry몭s sympathy was limited. 

몮I몭m very well indeed, thank you!몯 said Lockhart 
exuberantly, pulling a rather battered peacock-feather 
quill from his pocket. 몮Now, how many autographs 
would you like? I can do joined-up writing now, you 
know!몯 

몮Er 멪 we don몭t want any at the moment, thanks,몯 
said Ron, raising his eyebrows at Harry, who asked, 
몮Professor, should you be wandering around the 
corridors? Shouldn몭t you be in a ward?몯 

The smile faded slowly from Lockhart몭s face. For a few 
moments he gazed intently at Harry, then he said, 
몮Haven몭t we met?몯 

몮Er ... yeah, we have,몯 said Harry. 몮You used to teach 
us at Hogwarts, remember?몯 

몮Teach?몯 repeated Lockhart, looking faintly unsettled. 
몮Me? Did I?몯 

And then the smile reappeared upon his face so 
suddenly it was rather alarming. 몮Taught you 
everything you know, I expect, did I? Well, how about 
those autographs, then? Shall we say a round dozen, 

| 650Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




you can give them to all your little friends then and 
nobody will be left out!몯 



But just then a head poked out of a door at the far 
end of the corridor and a voice said, 몮Gilderoy, you 
naughty boy, where have you wandered off to?몯 

A motherly looking Healer wearing a tinsel wreath in 
her hair came bustling up the corridor, smiling 
warmly at Harry and the others. 

몮Oh Gilderoy, you몭ve got visitors! How lovely, and on 
Christmas Day too! Do you know, he never gets 
visitors, poor lamb, and I can몭t think why, he몭s such a 
sweetie, aren몭t you?몯 

몮We몭re doing autographs!몯 Gilderoy told the Healer 
with another glittering smile. 몮They want loads of 
them, won몭t take no for an answer! I just hope we몭ve 
got enough photographs!몯 

몮Listen to him,몯 said the Healer, taking Lockhart몭s 
arm and beaming fondly at him as though he were a 
precocious two-year-old. 몮He was rather well known a 
few years ago; we very much hope that this liking for 
giving autographs is a sign that his memory might be 
coming back a little bit. Will you step this way? He몭s 
in a closed ward, you know, he must have slipped out 
while I was bringing in the Christmas presents, the 
door몭s usually kept locked ... not that he몭s dangerous! 
But,몯 she lowered her voice to a whisper, 몮bit of a 
danger to himself, bless him... Doesn몭t know who he 
is, you see, wanders off and can몭t remember how to 
get back. . . It is nice of you to have come to see him 멪 



몮Er,몯 said Ron, gesturing uselessly at the floor above, 
몮actually, we were just 멪 er 멪 몯 

| 651Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




But the Healer was smiling expectantly at them, and 
Ron몭s feeble mutter of 몮going to have a cup of tea몯 
trailed away into nothingness. They looked at one 
another rather hopelessly and then followed Lockhart 
and his Healer along the corridor. 

몮Let몭s not stay long,몯 Ron said quietly. 

The Healer pointed her wand at the door of the Janus 
Thickey ward and muttered 몮Alohomora.몯 The door 
swung open and she led the way inside, keeping a 
firm grasp on Gilderoy몭s arm until she had settled 
him into an armchair beside his bed. 

몮This is our long-term resident ward,몯 she informed 
Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ginny in a low voice. 몮For 
permanent spell damage, you know. Of course, with 
intensive remedial potions and charms and a bit of 
luck, we can produce some improvement... Gilderoy 
does seem to be getting back some sense of himself, 
and we몭ve seen a real improvement in Mr. Bode, he 
seems to be regaining the power of speech very well, 
though he isn몭t speaking any language we recognize 
yet... Well, I must finish giving out the Christmas 
presents, I몭ll leave you all to chat...몯 

Harry looked around; this ward bore unmistakable 
signs of being a permanent home to its residents. 

They had many more personal effects around their 
beds than in Mr. Weasley몭s ward; the wall around 
Gilderoy몭s headboard, for instance, was papered with 
pictures of himself, all beaming toothily and waving at 
the new arrivals. He had autographed many of them 
to himself in disjointed, childish writing. The moment 
he had been deposited in his chair by the Healer, 
Gilderoy pulled a fresh stack of photographs toward 
him, seized a quill, and started signing them all 
feverishly. 



| 652Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮You can put them in envelopes,몯 he said to Ginny, 
throwing the signed pictures into her lap one by one 
as he finished them. 몮I am not forgotten, you know, 
no, I still receive a very great deal of fan mail... Gladys 
Gudgeon writes weekly... I just wish I knew why...몯 

He paused, looking faintly puzzled, then beamed 
again and returned to his signing with renewed vigor. 
몮I suspect it is simply my good looks...몯 

A sallow-skinned, mournful-looking wizard lay in the 
bed opposite, staring at the ceiling; he was mumbling 
to himself and seemed quite unaware of anything 
around him. Two beds along was a woman whose 
entire head was covered in fur; Harry remembered 
something similar happening to Hermione during 
their second year, although fortunately the damage, 
in her case, had not been permanent. At the far end 
of the ward flowery curtains had been drawn around 
two beds to give the occupants and their visitors some 
privacy. 

몮Here you are, Agnes,몯 said the Healer brightly to the 
furry-faced woman, handing her a small pile of 
Christmas presents. 몮See, not forgotten, are you? And 
your son몭s sent an owl to say he몭s visiting tonight, so 
that몭s nice, isn몭t it?몯 

Agnes gave several loud barks. 

몮And look, Broderick, you몭ve been sent a potted plant 
and a lovely calendar with a different fancy hippogriff 
for each month, they몭ll brighten things up, won몭t 
they?몯 said the Healer, bustling along to the 
mumbling man, setting a rather ugly plant with long, 
swaying tentacles on the bedside cabinet and fixing 
the calendar to the wall with her wand. 몮And 멪 oh, 
Mrs. Longbottom, are you leaving already?몯 



| 653Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry몭s head spun round. The curtains had been 
drawn back from the two beds at the end of the ward 
and two visitors were walking back down the aisle 
between the beds: a formidable-looking old witch 
wearing a long green dress, a moth-eaten fox fur, and 
a pointed hat decorated with what was unmistakably 
a stuffed vulture and, trailing behind her looking 
thoroughly depressed 멪 Neville. 

With a sudden rush of understanding, Harry realized 
who the people in the end beds must be. He cast 
around wildly for some means of distracting the 
others so that Neville could leave the ward unnoticed 
and unquestioned, but Ron had looked up at the 
sound of the name 몮Longbottom몯 too, and before 
Harry could stop him had called, 몮Neville\몯 

Neville jumped and cowered as though a bullet had 
narrowly missed him. 

몮It몭s us, Neville!몯 said Ron brightly, getting to his feet. 
몮Have you seen? Lockhart몭s here! Who몭ve you been 
visiting?몯 

몮Friends of yours, Neville, dear?몯 said Neville몭s 
grandmother graciously, bearing down upon them all. 

Neville looked as though he would rather be anywhere 
in the world but here. A dull purple flush was 
creeping up his plump face and he was not making 
eye contact with any of them. 

몮Ah, yes,몯 said his grandmother, looking closely at 
Harry and sticking out a shriveled, clawlike hand for 
him to shake. 몮Yes, yes, I know who you are, of 
course. Neville speaks most highly of you.몯 



| 654Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Er 멪 thanks,몯 said Harry, shaking hands. Neville did 
not look at him, but stared at his own feet, the color 
deepening in his face all the while. 

몮And you two are clearly Weasleys,몯 Mrs. Longbottom 
continued, proffering her hand regally to Ron and 
Ginny in turn. 몮Yes, I know your parents 멪 not well, 
of course 멪 but fine people, fine people ... and you 
must be Hermione Granger?몯 

Hermione looked rather startled that Mrs. 

Longbottom knew her name, but shook hands all the 
same. 

몮Yes, Neville몭s told me all about you. Helped him out 
of a few sticky spots, haven몭t you? He몭s a good boy,몯 
she said, casting a sternly appraising look down her 
rather bony nose at Neville, 몮but he hasn몭t got his 
father몭s talent, I몭m afraid to say...몯 And she jerked her 
head in the direction of the two beds at the end of the 
ward, so that the stuffed vulture on her hat trembled 
alarmingly. 

몮What?몯 said Ron, looking amazed (Harry wanted to 
stamp on Ron몭s foot, but that sort of thing was much 
harder to bring off unnoticed when you were wearing 
jeans rather than robes). 몮Is that your dad down the 
end, Neville?몯 

몮What몭s this?몯 said Mrs. Longbottom sharply. 몮Haven몭t 
you told your friends about your parents, Neville?몯 

Neville took a deep breath, looked up at the ceiling, 
and shook his head. Harry could not remember ever 
feeling sorrier for anyone, but he could not think of 
any way of helping Neville out of the situation. 

몮Well, it몭s nothing to be ashamed of!몯 said Mrs. 
Longbottom angrily. 몮You should be proud, Neville, 

| 655Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




proud). They didn몭t give their health and their sanity 
so their only son would be ashamed of them, you 
know!몯 

몮I몭m not ashamed,몯 said Neville very faintly, still 
looking anywhere but at Harry and the others. Ron 
was now standing on tiptoe to look over at the 
inhabitants of the two beds. 

몮Well, you몭ve got a funny way of showing it!몯 said Mrs. 
Longbottom. 몮My son and his wife,몯 she said, turning 
haughtily to Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ginny, 몮were 
tortured into insanity by You-Know- Who몭s followers.몯 

Hermione and Ginny both clapped their hands over 
their mouths. Ron stopped craning his neck to catch 
a glimpse of Neville몭s parents and looked mortified. 

몮They were Aurors, you know, and very well respected 
within the Wizarding community,몯 Mrs. Longbottom 
went on. 몮Highly gifted, the pair of them. I 멪 yes, 

Alice dear, what is it?몯 

Neville몭s mother had come edging down the ward in 
her nightdress. She no longer had the plump, happy- 
looking face Harry had seen in Moody몭s old 
photograph of the original Order of the Phoenix. Her 
face was thin and worn now, her eyes seemed 
overlarge, and her hair, which had turned white, was 
wispy and dead-looking. She did not seem to want to 
speak, or perhaps she was not able to, but she made 
timid motions toward Neville, holding something in 
her outstretched hand. 

몮Again?몯 said Mrs. Longbottom, sounding slightly 
weary. 몮Very well, Alice dear, very well 멪 Neville, take 
it, whatever it is...몯 



| 656Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




But Neville had already stretched out his hand, into 
which his mother dropped an empty Droobles 
Blowing Gum wrapper. 

몮Very nice, dear,몯 said Neville몭s grandmother in a 
falsely cheery voice, patting his mother on the 
shoulder. But Neville said quietly, 몮Thanks Mum.몯 

His mother tottered away, back up the ward, 
humming to herself. Neville looked around at the 
others, his expression defiant, as though daring them 
to laugh, but Harry did not think he몭d ever found 
anything less funny in his life. 

몮Well, we몭d better get back,몯 sighed Mrs. Longbottom, 
drawing on long green gloves. 몮Very nice to have met 
you all. Neville, put that wrapper in the bin, she must 
have given you enough of them to paper your 
bedroom by now...몯 

But as they left, Harry was sure he saw Neville slip 
the wrapper into his pocket. 

The door closed behind them. 

몮I never knew,몯 said Hermione, who looked tearful. 
몮Nor did I,몯 said Ron rather hoarsely. 

몮Nor me,몯 whispered Ginny. 

They all looked at Harry. 

몮I did,몯 he said glumly. 몮Dumbledore told me but I 
promised I wouldn몭t mention it ... that몭s what 
Bellatrix Lestrange got sent to Azkaban for, using the 
Cruciatus Curse on Neville몭s parents until they lost 
their minds.몯 



| 657Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Bellatrix Lestrange did that?몯 whispered Hermione, 
horrified. 몮That woman Kreacher몭s got a photo of in 
his den?몯 



There was a long silence, broken by Lockhart몭s angry 
voice. 몮Look, I didn몭t learn joined-up writing for 
nothing, you know!몯 



| 658Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 





OCCLUMENCY 

Kreacher, it transpired, had been lurking in the attic. 
Sirius said he had found him up there, covered in 
dust, no doubt looking for more relics of the Black 
family to hide in his cupboard. Though Sirius seemed 
satisfied with this story, it made Harry uneasy. 
Kreacher seemed to be in a better mood on his 
reappearance, his bitter muttering had subsided 
somewhat, and he submitted to orders more docilely 
than usual, though once or twice Harry caught the 
house-elf staring avidly at him, always looking quickly 
away when he saw that Harry had noticed. 

Harry did not mention his vague suspicions to Sirius, 
whose cheerfulness was evaporating fast now that 
Christmas was over. As the date of their departure 
back to Hogwarts drew nearer, he became more and 
more prone to what Mrs. Weasley called 몮fits of the 
sullens,몯 in which he would become taciturn and 
grumpy, often withdrawing to Buckbeak몭s room for 
hours at a time. His gloom seeped through the house, 
oozing under doorways like some noxious gas, so that 
all of them became infected by it. 

| 659Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



Harry did not want to leave Sirius all alone again with 
only Kreacher for company. In fact, for the first time 
in his life, he was not looking forward to returning to 
Hogwarts. Going back to school would mean placing 
himself once again under the tyranny of Dolores 
Umbridge, who had no doubt managed to force 
through another dozen decrees in their absence. Then 
there was no Quidditch to look forward to now that he 
had been banned; there was every likelihood that 
their burden of homework would increase as the 
exams drew even nearer; Dumbledore remained as 
remote as ever; in fact, if it had not been for the D.A., 
Harry felt he might have gone to Sirius and begged 
him to let him leave Hogwarts and remain in 
Grimmauld Place. 

Then, on the very last day of the holidays, something 
happened that made Harry positively dread his return 
to school. 

몮Harry dear,몯 said Mrs. Weasley, poking her head into 
his and Ron몭s bedroom, where the pair of them were 
playing wizard chess watched by Hermione, Ginny, 
and Crookshanks, 몮could you come down to the 
kitchen? Professor Snape would like a word with 
you.몯 

Harry did not immediately register what she had said; 
one of his castles was engaged in a violent tussle with 
a pawn of Ron몭s, and he was egging it on 
enthusiastically. 

몮Squash him 멪 squash him, he몭s only a pawn, you 
idiot 멪 sorry, Mrs. Weasley, what did you say?몯 

몮Professor Snape, dear. In the kitchen. He몭d like a 
word.몯 



| 660Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry몭s mouth fell open in horror. He looked around 
at Ron, Hermione, and Ginny, all of whom were 
gaping back at him. Crookshanks, whom Hermione 
had been restraining with difficulty for the past 
quarter of an hour, leapt gleefully upon the board and 
set the pieces running for cover, squealing at the top 
of their voices. 

몮Snape?몯 said Harry blankly. 

몮Professor Snape, dear,몯 said Mrs. Weasley 
reprovingly. 몮Now come on, quickly, he says he can몭t 
stay long.몯 

몮What몭s he want with you?몯 said Ron, looking 
unnerved as Mrs. Weasley withdrew from the room. 

몮You haven몭t done anything, have you?몯 

몮No!몯 said Harry indignantly, racking his brains to 
think what he could have done that would make 
Snape pursue him to Grimmauld Place. Had his last 
piece of homework perhaps earned a T? 

He pushed open the kitchen door a minute or two 
later to find Sirius and Snape both seated at the long 
kitchen table, glaring in opposite directions. The 
silence between them was heavy with mutual dislike. 

A letter lay open on the table in front of Sirius. 

몮Er,몯 said Harry to announce his presence. 

Snape looked around at him, his face framed between 
curtains of greasy black hair. 

몮Sit down, Potter.몯 

몮You know,몯 said Sirius loudly, leaning back on his 
rear chair legs and speaking to the ceiling, 몮I think I몭d 

| 661Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




prefer it if you didn몭t give orders here, Snape. It몭s my 
house, you see.몯 

An ugly flush suffused Snape 몭s pallid face. Harry sat 
down in a chair beside Sirius, facing Snape across the 
table. 

몮I was supposed to see you alone, Potter,몯 said Snape, 
the familiar sneer curling his mouth, 몮but Black 멪 몯 

몮I몭m his godfather,몯 said Sirius, louder than ever. 

몮I am here on Dumbledore몭s orders,몯 said Snape, 
whose voice, by contrast, was becoming more and 
more quietly waspish, 몮but by all means stay, Black, I 
know you like to feel ... involved.몯 

몮What몭s that supposed to mean?몯 said Sirius, letting 
his chair fall back onto all four legs with a loud bang. 

몮Merely that I am sure you must feel 멪 ah 멪 
frustrated by the fact that you can do nothing useful,몯 
Snape laid a delicate stress on the word, 몮for the 
Order.몯 

It was Sirius몭s turn to flush. Snape 몭s lip curled in 
triumph as he turned to Harry. 

몮The headmaster has sent me to tell you, Potter, that 
it is his wish for you to study Occlumency this term.몯 

몮Study what?몯 said Harry blankly. 

Snape몭s sneer became more pronounced. 

몮Occlumency, Potter. The magical defense of the mind 
against external penetration. An obscure branch of 
magic, but a highly useful one.몯 



| 662Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry몭s heart began to pump very fast indeed. 

Defense against external penetration? But he was not 
being possessed, they had all agreed on that... 

몮Why do I have to study Occlu 멪 thing?몯 he blurted 
out. 

몮Because the headmaster thinks it a good idea,몯 said 
Snape smoothly. 몮You will receive private lessons 
once a week, but you will not tell anybody what you 
are doing, least of all Dolores Umbridge. You 
understand?몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Harry. 몮Who몭s going to be teaching me?몯 
Snape raised an eyebrow. 

몮I am,몯 he said. 

Harry had the horrible sensation that his insides were 
melting. Extra lessons with Snape 멪 what on earth 
had he done to deserve this? He looked quickly 
around at Sirius for support. 

몮Why can몭t Dumbledore teach Harry?몯 asked Sirius 
aggressively. 몮Why you?몯 

몮I suppose because it is a headmaster몭s privilege to 
delegate less enjoyable tasks,몯 said Snape silkily. 몮I 
assure you I did not beg for the job.몯 He got to his 
feet. 몮I will expect you at six o몭clock on Monday 
evening, Potter. My office. If anybody asks, you are 
taking Remedial Potions. Nobody who has seen you in 
my classes could deny you need them.몯 

He turned to leave, his black traveling cloak billowing 
behind him. 



| 663Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Wait a moment,몯 said Sirius, sitting up straighter in 
his chair. 

Snape turned back to face them, sneering. 

몮I am in rather a hurry, Black ... unlike you, I do not 
have unlimited leisure time...몯 

몮I몭ll get to the point, then,몯 said Sirius, standing up. 

He was rather taller than Snape who, Harry noticed, 
had balled his fist in the pocket of his cloak over what 
Harry was sure was the handle of his wand. 몮If I hear 
you몭re using these Occlumency lessons to give Harry 
a hard time, you몭ll have me to answer to.몯 

몮How touching,몯 Snape sneered. 몮But surely you have 
noticed that Potter is very like his father?몯 

몮Yes, I have,몯 said Sirius proudly. 

몮Well then, you몭ll know he몭s so arrogant that criticism 
simply bounces off him,몯 Snape said sleekly. 

Sirius pushed his chair roughly aside and strode 
around the table toward Snape, pulling out his wand 
as he went; Snape whipped out his own. They were 
squaring up to each other, Sirius looking livid, Snape 
calculating, his eyes darting from Sirius몭s wand tip to 
his face. 

몮Sirius!몯 said Harry loudly, but Sirius appeared not to 
hear him. 

몮I몭ve warned you, Snivellus,몯 said Sirius, his face 
barely a foot from Snape 몭s, 몮I don몭t care if Dumbledore 
thinks you몭ve reformed, I know better 멪 몯 

몮Oh, but why don몭t you tell him so?몯 whispered 
Snape. 몮Or are you afraid he might not take the 

| 664Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




advice of a man who has been hiding inside his 
mother몭s house for six months very seriously?몯 

몮Tell me, how is Lucius Malfoy these days? I expect 
he몭s delighted his lapdog몭s working at Hogwarts, isn몭t 
he?몯 

몮Speaking of dogs,몯 said Snape softly, 몮did you know 
that Lucius Malfoy recognized you last time you 
risked a little jaunt outside? Clever idea, Black, 
getting yourself seen on a safe station platform . . . 
gave you a cast-iron excuse not to leave your hidey- 
hole in future, didn몭t it?몯 

Sirius raised his wand. 

몮NO!몯 Harry yelled, vaulting over the table and trying 
to get in between them, 몮Sirius, don몭t 멪 몯 

몮Are you calling me a coward?몯 roared Sirius, trying to 
push Harry out of the way, but Harry would not 
budge. 

몮Why, yes, I suppose I am,몯 said Snape. 

몮Harry 멪 get 멪 out 멪 of 멪 it!몯 snarled Sirius, 
pushing him out of the way with his free hand. 

The kitchen door opened and the entire Weasley 
family, plus Hermione, came inside, all looking very 
happy, with Mr. Weasley walking proudly in their 
midst dressed in a pair of striped pajamas covered by 
a mackintosh. 

몮Cured!몯 he announced brightly to the kitchen at 
large. 몮Completely cured!몯 

He and all the other Weasleys froze on the threshold, 
gazing at the scene in front of them, which was also 

| 665Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




suspended in mid-action, both Sirius and Snape 
looking toward the door with their wands pointing 
into each other몭s faces and Harry immobile between 
them, a hand stretched out to each of them, trying to 
force them apart. 

몮Merlin몭s beard,몯 said Mr. Weasley, the smile sliding 
off his face, 몮what몭s going on here?몯 

Both Sirius and Snape lowered their wands. Harry 
looked from one to the other. Each wore an 
expression of utmost contempt, yet the unexpected 
entrance of so many witnesses seemed to have 
brought them to their senses. Snape pocketed his 
wand and swept back across the kitchen, passing the 
Weasleys without comment. At the door he looked 
back. 

몮Six o몭clock Monday evening, Potter.몯 

He was gone. Sirius glared after him, his wand at his 
side. 

몮But what몭s been going on?몯 asked Mr. Weasley again. 

몮Nothing, Arthur,몯 said Sirius, who was breathing 
heavily as though he had just run a long distance. 
몮Just a friendly little chat between two old school 
friends...몯 With what looked like an enormous effort, 
he smiled. 몮So ... you몭re cured? That몭s great news, 
really great...몯 

몮Yes, isn몭t it?몯 said Mrs. Weasley, leading her 
husband forward into a chair. 몮Healer Smethwyck 
worked his magic in the end, found an antidote to 
whatever that snake몭s got in its fangs, and Arthur몭s 
learned his lesson about dabbling in Muggle 
medicine, haven몭t you, dear?몯 she added, rather 
menacingly. 

| 666Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Yes, Molly dear,몯 said Mr. Weasley meekly. 

That night몭s meal should have been a cheerful one 
with Mr. Weasley back amongst them; Harry could 
tell Sirius was trying to make it so, yet when his 
godfather was not forcing himself to laugh loudly at 
Fred and George몭s jokes or offering everyone more 
food, his face fell back into a moody, brooding 
expression. Harry was separated from him by 
Mundungus and Mad-Eye, who had dropped in to 
offer Mr. Weasley their congratulations; he wanted to 
talk to Sirius, to tell him that he should not listen to a 
word Snape said, that Snape was goading him 
deliberately and that the rest of them did not think 
Sirius was a coward for doing as Dumbledore told 
him and remaining in Grimmauld Place, but he had 
no opportunity to do so, and wondered occasionally, 
eyeing the ugly look on Sirius몭s face, whether he 
would have dared to even if he had the chance. 

Instead he told Ron and Hermione under his voice 
about having to take Occlumency lessons with Snape. 

몮Dumbledore wants to stop you having those dreams 
about Voldemort,몯 said Hermione at once. 몮Well, you 
won몭t be sorry not to have them anymore, will you?몯 

몮Extra lessons with Snape?몯 said Ron, sounding 
aghast. 몮I몭d rather have the nightmares!몯 

They were to return to Hogwarts on the Knight Bus 
the following day, escorted once again by Tonks and 
Lupin, both of whom were eating breakfast in the 
kitchen when Harry, Ron, and Hermione arrived there 
next morning. The adults seemed to have been 
midway through a whispered conversation when the 
door opened; all of them looked around hastily and 
fell silent. 



| 667Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




After a hurried breakfast they pulled on jackets and 
scarves against the chilly gray January morning. 

Harry had an unpleasant constricted sensation in his 
chest; he did not want to say good-bye to Sirius. He 
had a bad feeling about this parting; he did not know 
when they would next see each other and felt that it 
was incumbent upon him to say something to Sirius 
to stop him doing anything stupid 멪 Harry was 
worried that Snape몭s accusation of cowardice had 
stung Sirius so badly he might even now be planning 
some foolhardy trip beyond Grimmauld Place. Before 
he could think of what to say, however, Sirius had 
beckoned him to his side. 

몮I want you to take this,몯 he said quietly, thrusting a 
badly wrapped package roughly the size of a 
paperback book into Harry몭s hands. 

몮What is it?몯 Harry asked. 

몮A way of letting me know if Snape몭s giving you a hard 
time. No, don몭t open it in here!몯 said Sirius, with a 
wary look at Mrs. Weasley, who was trying to 
persuade the twins to wear hand-knitted mittens. 몮I 
doubt Molly would approve 멪 but I want you to use it 
if you need me, all right?몯 

몮Okay,몯 said Harry, stowing the package away in the 
inside pocket of his jacket, but he knew he would 
never use whatever it was. It would not be he, Harry, 
who lured Sirius from his place of safety, no matter 
how foully Snape treated him in their forthcoming 
Occlumency classes. 

몮Let몭s go, then,몯 said Sirius, clapping Harry on the 
shoulder and smiling grimly, and before Harry could 
say anything else, they were heading upstairs, 
stopping before the heavily chained and bolted front 
door, surrounded by Weasleys. 

| 668Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Good-bye, Harry, take care,몯 said Mrs. Weasley, 
hugging him. 

몮See you Harry, and keep an eye out for snakes for 
me!몯 said Mr. Weasley genially, shaking his hand. 

몮Right 멪 yeah,몯 said Harry distractedly. It was his 
last chance to tell Sirius to be careful; he turned, 
looked into his godfather몭s face and opened his mouth 
to speak, but before he could do so Sirius was giving 
him a brief, one-armed hug. He said gruffly, 몮Look 
after yourself, Harry,몯 and next moment Harry found 
himself being shunted out into the icy winter air, with 
Tonks (today heavily disguised as a tall, tweedy 
woman with iron-gray hair) chivvying him down the 
steps. 

The door of number twelve slammed shut behind 
them. They followed Lupin down the front steps. As 
he reached the pavement, Harry looked around. 
Number twelve was shrinking rapidly as those on 
either side of it stretched sideways, squeezing it out of 
sight; one blink later, it had gone. 

몮Come on, the quicker we get on the bus the better,몯 
said Tonks, and Harry thought there was 
nervousness in the glance she threw around the 
square. Lupin flung out his right arm. 

BANG. 

A violently purple, triple-decker bus had appeared out 
of thin air in front of them, narrowly avoiding the 
nearest lamppost, which jumped backward out of its 
way. 

A thin, pimply, jug-eared youth in a purple uniform 
leapt down onto the pavement and said, 몮Welcome to 
the 멪 몯 

| 669Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Yes, yes, we know, thank you,몯 said Tonks swiftly. 
몮On, on, get on 멪 

And she shoved Harry forward toward the steps, past 
the conductor, who goggled at Harry as he passed. 

몮 몭Ere 멪 it몭s 몭Arry 멪 !몯 



몮If you shout his name I will curse you into oblivion,몯 
muttered Tonks menacingly, now shunting Ginny and 
Hermione forward. 

몮I몭ve always wanted to go on this thing,몯 said Ron 
happily, joining Harry on board and looking around. 

It had been evening the last time Harry had traveled 
by Knight Bus and its three decks had been full of 
brass bedsteads. Now, in the early morning, it was 
crammed with an assortment of mismatched chairs 
grouped haphazardly around windows. Some of these 
appeared to have fallen over when the bus stopped 
abruptly in Grimmauld Place; a few witches and 
wizards were still getting to their feet, grumbling, and 
somebody몭s shopping bag had slid the length of the 
bus; an unpleasant mixture of frog spawn, 
cockroaches, and custard creams was scattered all 
over the floor. 

몮Looks like we몭ll have to split up,몯 said Tonics briskly, 
looking around for empty chairs. 몮Fred, George, and 
Ginny, if you just take those seats at the back ... 
Remus can stay with you...몯 

She, Harry, Ron, and Hermione proceeded up to the 
very top deck, where there were two chairs at the very 
front of the bus and two at the back. Stan Shunpike, 
the conductor, followed Harry and Ron eagerly to the 
back. Heads turned as Harry passed and when he sat 



| 670Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




down, he saw all the faces flick back to the front 
again. 

As Harry and Ron handed Stan eleven Sickles each, 
the bus set off again, swaying ominously. It rumbled 
around Grimmauld Square, weaving on and off the 
pavement, then, with another tremendous BANG, 
they were all flung backward; Ron몭s chair toppled 
right over and Pigwidgeon, who had been on his lap, 
burst out of his cage and flew twittering wildly up to 
the front of the bus where he fluttered down upon 
Hermione몭s shoulder instead. Harry, who had 
narrowly avoided falling by seizing a candle bracket, 
looked out of the window: they were now speeding 
down what appeared to be a motorway. 

몮Just outside Birmingham,몯 said Stan happily, 
answering Harry몭s unasked question as Ron struggled 
up from the floor. 몮You keepin몭 well, then, 몭Arry? I 
seen your name in the paper loads over the summer, 
but it weren몭t never nuffink very nice... I said to Ern, I 
said, 몬몭e didn몭t seem like a nutter when we met 몭im, 
just goes to show, dunnit?몭 몯 

He handed over their tickets and continued to gaze, 
enthralled, at Harry; apparently Stan did not care 
how nutty somebody was if they were famous enough 
to be in the paper. The Knight Bus swayed 
alarmingly, overtaking a line of cars on the inside. 
Looking toward the front of the bus Harry saw 
Hermione cover her eyes with her hands, Pigwidgeon 
still swaying happily on her shoulder. 

BANG. 

Chairs slid backward again as the Knight Bus jumped 
from the Birmingham motorway to a quiet country 
lane full of hairpin bends. Hedgerows on either side of 
the road were leaping out of their way as they 

| 671Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




mounted the verges. From here they moved to a main 
street in the middle of a busy town, then to a viaduct 
surrounded by tall hills, then to a windswept road 
between high-rise flats, each time with a loud BANG. 

몮I몭ve changed my mind,몯 muttered Ron, picking 
himself up from the floor for the sixth time, 몮I never 
want to ride on here again.몯 

몮Listen, it몭s 몭Ogwarts stop after this,몯 said Stan 
brightly, swaying toward them. 몮That bossy woman 
up front 몭oo got on with you, she몭s given us a little tip 
to move you up the queue. We몭re just gonna let 
Madam Marsh off first, though 멪 몯 There was more 
retching from downstairs, followed by a horrible 
spattering sound. 몮She몭s not feeling 몭er best.몯 

A few minutes later the Knight Bus screeched to a 
halt outside a small pub, which squeezed itself out of 
the way to avoid a collision. They could hear Stan 
ushering the unfortunate Madam Marsh out of the 
bus and the relieved murmurings of her fellow 
passengers on the second deck. The bus moved on 
again, gathering speed, until 멪 

BANG. 

They were rolling through a snowy Hogsmeade. Harry 
caught a glimpse of the Hog몭s Head down its side 
street, the severed boar몭s head sign creaking in the 
wintry wind. Flecks of snow hit the large window at 
the front of the bus. At last they rolled to a halt 
outside the gates to Hogwarts. 

Lupin and Tonks helped them off the bus with their 
luggage and then got off to say good-bye. Harry 
glanced up at the three decks of the Knight Bus and 
saw all the passengers staring down at them, noses 
flat against the windows. 

| 672Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮You몭ll be safe once you몭re in the grounds,몯 said 
Tonks, casting a careful eye around at the deserted 
road. 몮Have a good term, okay?몯 

몮Look after yourselves,몯 said Lupin, shaking hands all 
round and reaching Harry last. 몮And listen ...몯 He 
lowered his voice while the rest of them exchanged 
last-minute good-byes with Tonks, 몮Harry, I know you 
don몭t like Snape, but he is a superb Occlumens and 
we all 멪 Sirius included 멪 want you to learn to 
protect yourself, so work hard, all right?몯 

몮Yeah, all right,몯 said Harry heavily, looking up into 
Lupin몭s prematurely lined face. 몮See you, then ...몯 

The six of them struggled up the slippery drive toward 
the castle dragging their trunks. Hermione was 
already talking about knitting a few elf hats before 
bedtime. Harry glanced back when they reached the 
oak front doors; the Knight Bus had already gone, 
and he half-wished, given what was coming the 
following day, that he was still on board. 

Harry spent most of the next day dreading the 
evening. His morning Potions lesson did nothing to 
dispel his trepidation, as Snape was as unpleasant as 
ever, and Harry몭s mood was further lowered by the 
fact that members of the D.A. were continually 
approaching him in the corridors between classes, 
asking hopefully whether there would be a meeting 
that night. 

몮I몭ll let you know when the next one is,몯 Harry said 
over and over again, 몮but I can몭t do it tonight, I몭ve got 
to go to 멪 er 멪 Remedial Potions...몯 

몮You take Remedial Potions?몯 asked Zacharias Smith 
superciliously, having cornered Harry in the entrance 



| 673Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




hall after lunch. 몮Good Lord, you must be terrible, 
Snape doesn몭t usually give extra lessons, does he?몯 

As Smith strode away in an annoyingly buoyant 
fashion, Ron glared after him. 

몮Shall I jinx him? I can still get him from here,몯 he 
said, raising his wand and taking aim between 
Smith몭s shoulder blades. 

몮Forget it,몯 said Harry dismally. 몮It몭s what everyone몭s 
going to think, isn몭t it? That I몭m really stup 멪 몯 

몮Hi, Harry,몯 said a voice behind him. He turned 
around and found Cho standing there. 

몮Oh,몯 said Harry as his stomach leapt uncomfortably. 
몮Hi.몯 

몮We몭ll be in the library, Harry,몯 said Hermione firmly, 
and she seized Ron above the elbow and dragged him 
off toward the marble staircase. 

몮Had a good Christmas?몯 asked Cho. 

몮Yeah, not bad,몯 said Harry. 

몮Mine was pretty quiet,몯 said Cho. For some reason, 
she was looking rather embarrassed. 몮Erm ... there몭s 
another Hogsmeade trip next month, did you see the 
notice?몯 

몮What? Oh no, I haven몭t checked the notice board 
since I got back...몯 

몮Yes, it몭s on Valentine몭s Day...몯 

몮Right,몯 said Harry, wondering why she was telling 
him this. 몮Well, I suppose you want to 멪 ?몯 

| 674Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Only if you do,몯 she said eagerly. 

Harry stared. He had been about to say 몮I suppose 
you want to know when the next D.A. meeting is?몯 
but her response did not seem to fit. 

몮I 멪 er 멪 몯 he said. 

몮Oh, it몭s okay if you don몭t,몯 she said, looking 
mortified. 몮Don몭t worry. I-I몭ll see you around.몯 

She walked away. Harry stood staring after her, his 
brain working frantically. Then something clunked 
into place. 

몮Cho! Hey 멪 CHO!몯 

He ran after her, catching her halfway up the marble 
staircase. 

몮Er 멪 d몭you want to come into Hogsmeade with me on 
Valentine몭s Day?몯 

몮Oooh, yes!몯 she said, blushing crimson and beaming 
at him. 

몮Right ... well ... that몭s settled then,몯 said Harry, and 
feeling that the day was not going to be a complete 
loss after all, he headed off to the library to pick up 
Ron and Hermione before their afternoon lessons, 
walking in a rather bouncy way himself. 

By six o몭clock that evening, however, even the glow of 
having successfully asked out Cho Chang was 
insufficient to lighten the ominous feelings that 
intensified with every step Harry took toward Snape몭s 
office. 



| 675Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He paused outside the door when he reached it, 
wishing he were almost anywhere else, then, taking a 
deep breath, knocked, and entered. 

It was a shadowy room lined with shelves bearing 
hundreds of glass jars in which floated slimy bits of 
animals and plants, suspended in variously colored 
potions. In a corner stood the cupboard full of 
ingredients that Snape had once accused Harry 멪 not 
without reason 멪 of robbing. Harry몭s attention was 
drawn toward the desk, however, where a shallow 
stone basin engraved with runes and symbols lay in a 
pool of candlelight. Harry recognized it at once 멪 
Dumbledore몭s Pensieve. Wondering what on earth it 
was doing here, he jumped when Snape몭s cold voice 
came out of the corner. 

몮Shut the door behind you, Potter.몯 

Harry did as he was told with the horrible feeling that 
he was imprisoning himself as he did so. When he 
turned back to face the room Snape had moved into 
the light and was pointing silently at the chair 
opposite his desk. Harry sat down and so did Snape, 
his cold black eyes fixed unblinkingly upon Harry, 
dislike etched in every line of his face. 

몮Well, Potter, you know why you are here,몯 he said. 
몮The headmaster has asked me to teach you 
Occlumency. I can only hope that you prove more 
adept at it than Potions.몯 

몮Right,몯 said Harry tersely. 

몮This may not be an ordinary class, Potter,몯 said 
Snape, his eyes narrowed malevolently, 몮but I am still 
your teacher and you will therefore call me 몬sir몭 or 
몬Professor몭 at all times.몯 



| 676Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Yes ... sir,몯 said Harry. 



몮Now, Occlumency. As I told you back in your dear 
godfather몭s kitchen, this branch of magic seals the 
mind against magical intrusion and influence.몯 

몮And why does Professor Dumbledore think I need it, 
sir?몯 said Harry, looking directly into Snape몭s dark, 
cold eyes and wondering whether he would answer. 

Snape looked back at him for a moment and then 
said contemptuously, 몮Surely even you could have 
worked that out by now, Potter? The Dark Lord is 
highly skilled at Legilimency 멪 몯 

몮What몭s that? Sir?몯 

몮It is the ability to extract feelings and memories from 
another person몭s mind 멪 몯 

몮He can read minds?몯 said Harry quickly, his worst 
fears confirmed. 

몮You have no subtlety, Potter,몯 said Snape, his dark 
eyes glittering. 몮You do not understand fine 
distinctions. It is one of the shortcomings that makes 
you such a lamentable potion-maker.몯 

Snape paused for a moment, apparently to savor the 
pleasure of insulting Harry, before continuing, 몮Only 
Muggles talk of 몬mind reading. 몭 The mind is not a 
book, to be opened at will and examined at leisure. 
Thoughts are not etched on the inside of skulls, to be 
perused by any invader. The mind is a complex and 
many-layered thing, Potter ... or at least, most minds 
are...몯 He smirked. 몮It is true, however, that those 
who have mastered Legilimency are able, under 
certain conditions, to delve into the minds of their 
victims and to interpret their findings correctly. The 
| 677Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Dark Lord, for instance, almost always knows when 
somebody is lying to him. Only those skilled at 
Occlumency are able to shut down those feelings and 
memories that contradict the lie, and so utter 
falsehoods in his presence without detection.몯 

Whatever Snape said, Legilimency sounded like mind 
reading to Harry and he did not like the sound of it at 
all. 

몮So he could know what we몭re thinking right now? 
Sir?몯 

몮The Dark Lord is at a considerable distance and the 
walls and grounds of Hogwarts are guarded by many 
ancient spells and charms to ensure the bodily and 
mental safety of those who dwell within them,몯 said 
Snape. 몮Time and space matter in magic, Potter. Eye 
contact is often essential to Legilimency.몯 

몮Well then, why do I have to learn Occlumency?몯 

Snape eyed Harry, tracing his mouth with one long, 
thin finger as he did so. 

몮The usual rules do not seem to apply with you, 
Potter. The curse that failed to kill you seems to have 
forged some kind of connection between you and the 
Dark Lord. The evidence suggests that at times, when 
your mind is most relaxed and vulnerable 멪 when 
you are asleep, for instance 멪 you are sharing the 
Dark Lord몭s thoughts and emotions. The headmaster 
thinks it inadvisable for this to continue. He wishes 
me to teach you how to close your mind to the Dark 
Lord.몯 

Harry몭s heart was pumping fast again. None of this 
added up. 



| 678Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮But why does Professor Dumbledore want to stop it?몯 
he asked abruptly. 몮I don몭t like it much, but it몭s been 
useful, hasn몭t it? I mean ... I saw that snake attack 
Mr. Weasley and if I hadn몭t, Professor Dumbledore 
wouldn몭t have been able to save him, would he? Sir?몯 

Snape stared at Harry for a few moments, still tracing 
his mouth with his finger. When he spoke again, it 
was slowly and deliberately, as though he weighed 
every word. 

몮It appears that the Dark Lord has been unaware of 
the connection between you and himself until very 
recently. Up till now it seems that you have been 
experiencing his emotions and sharing his thoughts 
without his being any the wiser. However, the vision 
you had shortly before Christmas 멪 몯 

몮The one with the snake and Mr. Weasley?몯 

몮Do not interrupt me, Potter,몯 said Snape in a 
dangerous voice. 몮As I was saying ... the vision you 
had shortly before Christmas represented such a 
powerful incursion upon the Dark Lord몭s thoughts 멪 몯 

몮I saw inside the snake몭s head, not his!몯 

몮I thought I just told you not to interrupt me, Potter?몯 

But Harry did not care if Snape was angry; at last he 
seemed to be getting to the bottom of this business. 

He had moved forward in his chair so that, without 
realizing it, he was perched on the very edge, tense as 
though poised for flight. 

몮How come I saw through the snake몭s eyes if it몭s 
Voldemort몭s thoughts I몭m sharing?몯 

몮Do not say the Dark Lord몭s name\몯 spat Snape. 

| 679Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




There was a nasty silence. They glared at each other 
across the Pensieve. 

몮Professor Dumbledore says his name,몯 said Harry 
quietly. 

몮Dumbledore is an extremely powerful wizard,몯 Snape 
muttered. 몮While he may feel secure enough to use 
the name ... the rest of us ...몯 He rubbed his left 
forearm, apparently unconsciously, on the spot where 
Harry knew the Dark Mark was burned into his skin. 

몮I just wanted to know,몯 Harry began again, forcing 
his voice back to politeness, 몮why 멪 몯 

몮You seem to have visited the snake몭s mind because 
that was where the Dark Lord was at that particular 
moment,몯 snarled Snape. 몮He was possessing the 
snake at the time and so you dreamed you were 
inside it too...몯 

몮And Vol 멪 he 멪 realized I was there?몯 

몮It seems so,몯 said Snape coolly. 

몮How do you know?몯 said Harry urgently. 몮Is this just 
Professor Dumbledore guessing, or 멪 ?몯 

몮I told you,몯 said Snape, rigid in his chair, his eyes 
slits, 몮to call me 몬sir.몭 몯 

몮Yes, sir,몯 said Harry impatiently, 몮but how do you 
know 멪 ?몯 

몮It is enough that we know,몯 said Snape repressively. 
몮The important point is that the Dark Lord is now 
aware that you are gaining access to his thoughts and 
feelings. He has also deduced that the process is 
likely to work in reverse; that is to say, he has 
| 680Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




realized that he might be able to access your thoughts 
and feelings in return 멪 몯 

몮And he might try and make me do things?몯 asked 
Harry. 몮Sir?몯 he added hurriedly. 

몮He might,몯 said Snape, sounding cold and 
unconcerned. 몮Which brings us back to Occlumency.몯 

Snape pulled out his wand from an inside pocket of 
his robes and Harry tensed in his chair, but Snape 
merely raised the wand to his temple and placed its 
tip into the greasy roots of his hair. When he 
withdrew it, some silvery substance came away, 
stretching from temple to wand like a thick gossamer 
strand, which broke as he pulled the wand away from 
it and fell gracefully into the Pensieve, where it 
swirled silvery white, neither gas nor liquid. Twice 
more Snape raised the wand to his temple and 
deposited the silvery substance into the stone basin, 
then, without offering any explanation of his behavior, 
he picked up the Pensieve carefully, removed it to a 
shelf out of their way and returned to face Harry with 
his wand held at the ready. 

몮Stand up and take out your wand, Potter.몯 

Harry got to his feet feeling nervous. They faced each 
other with the desk between them. 

몮You may use your wand to attempt to disarm me, or 
defend yourself in any other way you can think of,몯 
said Snape. 

몮And what are you going to do?몯 Harry asked, eyeing 
Snape 몭s wand apprehensively. 

몮I am about to attempt to break into your mind,몯 said 
Snape softly. 몮We are going to see how well you resist. 

| 681Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




I have been told that you have already shown 
aptitude at resisting the Imperius Curse... You will 
find that similar powers are needed for this... Brace 
yourself, now... LegilimensV몭 

Snape had struck before Harry was ready, before 
Harry had even begun to summon any force of 
resistance: the office swam in front of his eyes and 
vanished, image after image was racing through his 
mind like a flickering film so vivid it blinded him to 
his surroundings... 

He was five, watching Dudley riding a new red bicycle, 
and his heart was bursting with jealousy... He was 
nine, and Ripper the bulldog was chasing him up a 
tree and the Dursleys were laughing below on the 
lawn. . . He was sitting under the Sorting Hat, and it 
was telling him he would do well in Slytherin... 
Hermione was lying in the hospital wing, her face 
covered with thick black hair. . . A hundred dementors 
were closing in on him beside the dark lake... Cho 
Chang was drawing nearer to him under the 
mistletoe... 

No, said a voice in Harry몭s head, as the memory of 
Cho drew nearer, you몭re not watching that, you몭re not 
watching it, it몭s private 멪 

He felt a sharp pain in his knee. Snape 몭s office had 
come back into view and he realized that he had 
fallen to the floor; one of his knees had collided 
painfully with the leg of Snape 몭s desk. He looked up at 
Snape, who had lowered his wand and was rubbing 
his wrist. There was an angry weal there, like a 
scorch mark. 

몮Did you mean to produce a Stinging Hex?몯 asked 
Snape coolly. 



| 682Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮No,몯 said Harry bitterly, getting up from the floor. 

몮I thought not,몯 said Snape contemptuously. 몮You let 
me get in too far. You lost control.몯 

몮Did you see everything I saw?몯 Harry asked, unsure 
whether he wanted to hear the answer. 

몮Flashes of it,몯 said Snape, his lip curling. 몮To whom 
did the dog belong?몯 

몮My Aunt Marge,몯 Harry muttered, hating Snape. 

몮Well, for a first attempt that was not as poor as it 
might have been,몯 said Snape, raising his wand once 
more. 몮You managed to stop me eventually, though 
you wasted time and energy shouting. You must 
remain focused. Repel me with your brain and you 
will not need to resort to your wand.몯 

몮I몭m trying,몯 said Harry angrily, 몮but you몭re not telling 
me how!몯 

몮Manners, Potter,몯 said Snape dangerously. 몮Now, I 
want you to close your eyes.몯 

Harry threw him a filthy look before doing as he was 
told. He did not like the idea of standing there with 
his eyes shut while Snape faced him, carrying a 
wand. 

몮Clear your mind, Potter,몯 said Snape 몭s cold voice. 
몮Let go of all emotion...몯 

But Harry몭s anger at Snape continued to pound 
through his veins like venom. Let go of his anger? He 
could as easily detach his legs... 



| 683Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮You몭re not doing it, Potter... You will need more 
discipline than this... Focus, now...몯 

Harry tried to empty his mind, tried not to think, or 
remember, or feel... 

몮Let몭s go again ... on the count of three ... one 멪 two 
멪 three 멪 Legilimensl몯 

A great black dragon was rearing in front of him... His 
father and mother were waving at him out of an 
enchanted mirror. . . Cedric Diggory was lying on the 
ground with blank eyes staring at him... 

몮NOOOOOOO!몯 

He was on his knees again, his face buried in his 
hands, his brain aching as though someone had been 
trying to pull it from his skull. 

몮Get up!몯 said Snape sharply. 몮Get up! You are not 
trying, you are making no effort, you are allowing me 
access to memories you fear, handing me weapons!몯 

Harry stood up again, his heart thumping wildly as 
though he had really just seen Cedric dead in the 
graveyard. Snape looked paler than usual, and 
angrier, though not nearly as angry as Harry was. 

몮I 멪 am 멪 making 멪 an 멪 effort,몯 he said through 
clenched teeth. 

몮I told you to empty yourself of emotion!몯 

몮Yeah? Well, I몭m finding that hard at the moment,몯 
Harry snarled. 

몮Then you will find yourself easy prey for the Dark 
Lord!몯 said Snape savagely. 몮Fools who wear their 

| 684Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




hearts proudly on their sleeves, who cannot control 
their emotions, who wallow in sad memories and 
allow themselves to be provoked this easily 멪 weak 
people, in other words 멪 they stand no chance 
against his powers! He will penetrate your mind with 
absurd ease, Potter!몯 

몮I am not weak,몯 said Harry in a low voice, fury now 
pumping through him so that he thought he might 
attack Snape in a moment. 

몮Then prove it! Master yourself!몯 spat Snape. 몮Control 
your anger, discipline your mind! We shall try again! 
Get ready, now! Legilimens\몯 

He was watching Uncle Vernon hammering the letter 
box shut... A hundred dementors were drifting across 
the lake in the grounds toward him... He was running 
along a windowless passage with Mr. Weasley... They 
were drawing nearer to the plain black door at the 
end of the corridor. . . Harry expected to go through it 
. . . but Mr. Weasley led him off to the left, down a 
flight of stone steps... 

몮I KNOW! I KNOW!몯 

He was on all fours again on Snape몭s office floor, his 
scar was prickling unpleasantly, but the voice that 
had just issued from his mouth was triumphant. He 
pushed himself up again to find Snape staring at him, 
his wand raised. It looked as though, this time, Snape 
had lifted the spell before Harry had even tried to 
fight back. 

몮What happened then, Potter?몯 he asked, eyeing 
Harry intently. 

몮I saw 멪 I remembered,몯 Harry panted. 몮I몭ve just 
realized ...몯 

| 685Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Realized what?몯 asked Snape sharply. 

Harry did not answer at once; he was still savoring 
the moment of blinding realization as he rubbed his 
forehead... 

He had been dreaming about a windowless corridor 
ending in a locked door for months, without once 
realizing that it was a real place. Now, seeing the 
memory again, he knew that all along he had been 
dreaming about the corridor down which he had run 
with Mr. Weasley on the twelfth of August as they 
hurried to the courtrooms in the Ministry. It was the 
corridor leading to the Department of Mysteries, and 
Mr. Weasley had been there the night that he had 
been attacked by Voldemort몭s snake... 

He looked up at Snape. 

몮What몭s in the Department of Mysteries?몯 

몮What did you say?몯 Snape asked quietly and Harry 
saw, with deep satisfaction, that Snape was 
unnerved. 

몮I said, what몭s in the Department of Mysteries, sir?몯 
Harry said. 

몮And why,몯 said Snape slowly, 몮would you ask such a 
thing?몯 

몮Because,몯 said Harry, watching Snape closely for a 
reaction, 몮that corridor I몭ve just seen 멪 I몭ve been 
dreaming about it for months 멪 I몭ve just recognized it 
멪 it leads to the Department of Mysteries . . . and I 
think Voldemort wants something from 멪 몯 

몮I have told you not to say the Dark Lord몭s name\몯 



| 686Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




They glared at each other. Harry몭s scar seared again, 
but he did not care. Snape looked agitated. When he 
spoke again he sounded as though he was trying to 
appear cool and unconcerned. 

몮There are many things in the Department of 
Mysteries, Potter, few of which you would understand 
and none of which concern you, do I make myself 
plain?몯 

몮Yes,몯 Harry said, still rubbing his prickling scar, 
which was becoming more painful. 

몮I want you back here same time on Wednesday, and 
we will continue work then.몯 

몮Fine,몯 said Harry. He was desperate to get out of 
Snape 몭s office and find Ron and Hermione. 

몮You are to rid your mind of all emotion every night 
before sleep 멪 empty it, make it blank and calm, you 
understand?몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Harry, who was barely listening. 

몮And be warned, Potter ... I shall know if you have not 
practiced ...몯 

몮Right,몯 Harry mumbled. He picked up his schoolbag, 
swung it over his shoulder, and hurried toward the 
office door. As he opened it he glanced back at Snape, 
who had his back to Harry and was scooping his own 
thoughts out of the Pensieve with the tip of his wand 
and replacing them carefully inside his own head. 
Harry left without another word, closing the door 
carefully behind him, his scar still throbbing 
painfully. 



| 687Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry found Ron and Hermione in the library, where 
they were working on Umbridge몭s most recent ream of 
homework. Other students, nearly all of them fifth 
years, sat at lamp-lit tables nearby, noses close to 
books, quills scratching feverishly, while the sky 
outside the mullioned windows grew steadily blacker. 
The only other sound was the slight squeaking of one 
of Madam Pince몭s shoes as the librarian prowled the 
aisles menacingly, breathing down the necks of those 
touching her precious books. 

Harry felt shivery; his scar was still aching, he felt 
almost feverish. When he sat down opposite Ron and 
Hermione he caught sight of himself in the window 
opposite. He was very white, and his scar seemed to 
be showing up more clearly than usual. 

몮How did it go?몯 Hermione whispered, and then, 
looking concerned, 몮Are you all right, Harry?몯 

몮Yeah ... fine ... I dunno,몯 said Harry impatiently, 
wincing as pain shot through his scar again. 몮Listen 
... I몭ve just realized something...몯 

And he told them what he had just seen and deduced. 

몮So ... so, are you saying ...몯 whispered Ron, as 
Madam Pince swept past, squeaking slightly, 몮that the 
weapon 멪 the thing You-Know- Who몭s after 멪 is in 
the Ministry of Magic?몯 

몮In the Department of Mysteries, it몭s got to be,몯 Harry 
whispered. 몮I saw that door when your dad took me 
down to the courtrooms for my hearing and it몭s 
definitely the same one he was guarding when the 
snake bit him.몯 

Hermione let out a long, slow sigh. 몮Of course,몯 she 
breathed. 

| 688Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Of course what?몯 said Ron rather impatiently. 

몮Ron, think about it... Sturgis Podmore was trying to 
get through a door at the Ministry of Magic... It must 
have been that one, it몭s too much of a coincidence!몯 

몮How come Sturgis was trying to break in when he몭s 
on our side?몯 said Ron. 

몮Well, I don몭t know,몯 Hermione admitted. 몮That is a bit 
odd...몯 

몮So what몭s in the Department of Mysteries?몯 Harry 
asked Ron. 몮Has your dad ever mentioned anything 
about it?몯 

몮I know they call the people who work in there 
몬Unspeakables,몭 몯 said Ron, frowning. 몮Because no one 
really seems to know what they do in there... Weird 
place to have a weapon ...몯 

몮It몭s not weird at all, it makes perfect sense,몯 said 
Hermione. 몮It will be something top secret that the 
Ministry has been developing, I expect... Harry, are 
you sure you몭re all right?몯 

For Harry had just run both his hands hard over his 
forehead as though trying to iron it. 

몮Yeah ... fine ...몯 he said, lowering his hands, which 
were trembling. 몮I just feel a bit ... I don몭t like 
Occlumency much...몯 

몮I expect anyone would feel shaky if they몭d had their 
mind attacked over and over again,몯 said Hermione 
sympathetically. 몮Look, let몭s get back to the common 
room, well be a bit more comfortable there...몯 



| 689Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




But the common room was packed and full of shrieks 
of laughter and excitement; Fred and George were 
demonstrating their latest bit of joke shop 
merchandise. 

몮Headless Hats!몯 shouted George, as Fred waved a 
pointed hat decorated with a fluffy pink feather at the 
watching students. 몮Two Galleons each 멪 watch 
Fred, now!몯 

Fred swept the hat onto his head, beaming. For a 
second he merely looked rather stupid, then both hat 
and head vanished. 

Several girls screamed, but everyone else was roaring 
with laughter. 

몮And off again!몯 shouted George, and Fred몭s hand 
groped for a moment in what seemed to be thin air 
over his shoulder; then his head reappeared as he 
swept the pink-feathered hat from it again. 

몮How do those hats work, then?몯 said Hermione, 
distracted from her homework and watching Fred and 
George. 몮I mean, obviously it몭s some kind of 
Invisibility Spell, but it몭s rather clever to have 
extended the field of invisibility beyond the 
boundaries of the charmed object... I몭d imagine the 
charm wouldn몭t have a very long life though...몯 

Harry did not answer; he was still feeling ill. 

몮I몭m going to have to do this tomorrow,몯 he muttered, 
pushing the books he had just taken out of his bag 
back inside it. 

몮Well, write it in your homework planner then!몯 said 
Hermione encouragingly. 몮So you don몭t forget!몯 



| 690Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry and Ron exchanged looks as he reached into 
his bag, withdrew the planner and opened it 
tentatively. 

몮 Don몭t leave it till later, you big second-rateri몯 chided 
the book as Harry scribbled down Umbridge몭s 
homework. Hermione beamed at it. 

몮I think 111 go to bed,몯 said Harry, stuffing the 
homework planner back into his bag and making a 
mental note to drop it in the fire the first opportunity 
he got. 

He walked across the common room, dodging George, 
who tried to put a Headless Hat on him, and reached 
the peace and cool of the stone staircase to the boys몭 
dormitories. He was feeling sick again, just as he had 
the night he had had the vision of the snake, but 
thought that if he could just lie down for a while he 
would be all right. 

He opened the door of his dormitory and was one step 
inside it when he experienced pain so severe he 
thought that someone must have sliced into the top of 
his head. He did not know where he was, whether he 
was standing or lying down, he did not even know his 
own name... 

Maniacal laughter was ringing in his ears... He was 
happier than he had been in a very long time... 
Jubilant, ecstatic, triumphant ... A wonderful, 
wonderful thing had happened... 

몮Harry? HARRY!몯 

Someone had hit him around the face. The insane 
laughter was punctuated with a cry of pain. The 
happiness was draining out of him, but the laughter 
continued... 

| 691Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He opened his eyes and as he did so, he became 
aware that the wild laughter was coming out of his 
own mouth. The moment he realized this, it died 
away; Harry lay panting on the floor, staring up at the 
ceiling, the scar on his forehead throbbing horribly. 
Ron was bending over him, looking very worried. 

몮What happened?몯 he said. 

몮I ... dunno ...몯 Harry gasped, sitting up again. 몮He몭s 
really happy ... really happy ...몯 

몮You-Know-Who is?몯 

몮Something good몭s happened,몯 mumbled Harry. He 
was shaking as badly as he had done after seeing the 
snake attack Mr. Weasley and felt very sick. 
몮Something he몭s been hoping for.몯 

The words came, just as they had back in the 
Gryffindor changing room, as though a stranger was 
speaking them through Harry몭s mouth, yet he knew 
they were true. He took deep breaths, willing himself 
not to vomit all over Ron. He was very glad that Dean 
and Seamus were not here to watch this time. 

몮Hermione told me to come and check on you,몯 said 
Ron in a low voice, helping Harry to his feet. 몮She 
says your defenses will be low at the moment, after 
Snape몭s been fiddling around with your mind... Still, I 
suppose it몭ll help in the long run, won몭t it?몯 

He looked doubtfully at Harry as he helped him 
toward bed. Harry nodded without any conviction and 
slumped back on his pillows, aching all over from 
having fallen to the floor so often that evening, his 
scar still prickling painfully. He could not help feeling 
that his first foray into Occlumency had weakened his 
mind몭s resistance rather than strengthening it, and 
| 692Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




he wondered, with a feeling of great trepidation, what 
had happened to make Lord Voldemort the happiest 
he had been in fourteen years. 



| 693Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






THE BEETLE AT BAY 

Harry몭s question was answered the very next 
morning. When Hermione몭s Daily Prophet arrived she 
smoothed it out, gazed for a moment at the front 
page, and then gave a yelp that caused everyone in 
the vicinity to stare at her. 

몮What?몯 said Harry and Ron together. 

For an answer she spread the newspaper on the table 
in front of them and pointed at ten black-and-white 
photographs that filled the whole of the front page, 
nine showing wizards몭 faces and the tenth, a witch몭s. 
Some of the people in the photographs were silently 
jeering; others were tapping their fingers on the frame 
of their pictures, looking insolent. Each picture was 
captioned with a name and the crime for which the 
person had been sent to Azkaban. 

Antonin Dolohov, read the legend beneath a wizard 
with a long, pale, twisted face who was sneering up at 
Harry, convicted of the brutal murders of Gideon and 
Fabian Prewett. 

| 694Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



Augustus Rookwood, said the caption beneath a 
pockmarked man with greasy hair who was leaning 
against the edge of his picture, looking bored, 
convicted of leaking Ministry of Magic Secrets to He- 
Who-Must-Not-Be-Named. 

But Harry몭s eyes were drawn to the picture of the 
witch. Her face had leapt out at him the moment he 
had seen the page. She had long, dark hair that 
looked unkempt and straggly in the picture, though 
he had seen it sleek, thick, and shining. She glared 
up at him through heavily lidded eyes, an arrogant, 
disdainful smile playing around her thin mouth. Like 
Sirius, she retained vestiges of great good looks, but 
something 멪 perhaps Azkaban 멪 had taken most of 
her beauty. 

Bellatrix Lestrange, convicted of the torture and 
permanent incapacitation of Frank and Alice 
Longbottom. 

Hermione nudged Harry and pointed at the headline 
over the pictures, which Harry, concentrating on 
Bellatrix, had not yet read. 

MASS BREAKOUT FROM AZKABAN 

MINISTRY FEARS BLACK IS 몮RALLYING POINT몯 

FOR OLD DEATH EATERS 

몮Black?몯 said Harry loudly. 몮Not 멪 ?몯 

몮 Shhh\ 몯 whispered Hermione desperately. 몮Not so loud 
멪 just read it!몯 

The Ministry of Magic announced late last night that 
there has been a mass breakout from Azkaban. 



| 695Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Speaking to reporters in his private office, Cornelius 
Fudge, Minister of Magic, confirmed that ten high- 
security prisoners escaped in the early hours of 
yesterday evening, and that he has already informed 
the Muggle Prime Minister of the dangerous nature of 
these individuals. 

몮We find ourselves, most unfortunately, in the same 
position we were two and a half years ago when the 
murderer Sirius Black escaped, 몯 said Fudge last night. 
몮Nor do we think the two breakouts are unrelated. An 
escape of this magnitude suggests outside help, and 
we must remember that Black, as the first person ever 
to break out of Azkaban, would be ideally placed to 
help others follow in his footsteps. We think it likely 
that these individuals, who include Black몭s cousin, 
Bellatrix Lestrange, have rallied around Black as their 
leader. We are, however, doing all we can to round up 
the criminals and beg the magical community to remain 
alert and cautious. On no account should any of these 
individuals be approached. 몯 

몮There you are, Harry,몯 said Ron, looking awestruck. 
몮That몭s why he was happy last night...몯 

몮I don몭t believe this,몯 snarled Harry, 몮Fudge is blaming 
the breakout on Sirius?몯 

몮What other options does he have?몯 said Hermione 
bitterly. 몮He can hardly say, 몬Sorry everyone, 
Dumbledore warned me this might happen, the 
Azkaban guards have joined Lord Voldemort몭 멪 stop 
whimpering, Ron 멪 몬and now Voldemort몭s worst 
supporters have broken out too.몭 I mean, he몭s spent a 
good six months telling everyone you and Dumbledore 
are liars, hasn몭t he?몯 

Hermione ripped open the newspaper and began to 
read the report inside while Harry looked around the 

| 696Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Great Hall. He could not understand why his fellow 
students were not looking scared or at least 
discussing the terrible piece of news on the front 
page, but very few of them took the newspaper every 
day like Hermione. There they all were, talking about 
homework and Quidditch and who knew what other 
rubbish, and outside these walls ten more Death 
Eaters had swollen Voldemort몭s ranks... 

He glanced up at the staff table. It was a different 
story here: Dumbledore and Professor McGonagall 
were deep in conversation, both looking extremely 
grave. Professor Sprout had the Prophet propped 
against a bottle of ketchup and was reading the front 
page with such concentration that she was not 
noticing the gentle drip of egg yolk falling into her lap 
from her stationary spoon. Meanwhile, at the far end 
of the table, Professor Umbridge was tucking into a 
bowl of porridge. For once her pouchy toad몭s eyes 
were not sweeping the Great Hall looking for 
misbehaving students. She scowled as she gulped 
down her food and every now and then she shot a 
malevolent glance up the table to where Dumbledore 
and McGonagall were talking so intently. 

몮Oh my 멪 몯 said Hermione wonderingly, still staring at 
the newspaper. 

몮What now?몯 said Harry quickly; he was feeling 
jumpy. 

몮It몭s ... horrible,몯 said Hermione, looking shaken. She 
folded back page ten of the newspaper and handed it 
back to Harry and Ron. 

TRAGIC DEMISE OF 

MINISTRY OF MAGIC WORKER 



| 697Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




St. Mungo몭s Hospital promised a full inquiry last 
night after Ministry of Magic worker Broderick Bode, 
49, was discovered dead in his bed, strangled by a 
potted-plant. Healers called to the scene were unable 
to revive Mr. Bode, who had been injured in a 
workplace accident some weeks prior to his death. 

Healer Miriam Strout, who was in charge of Mr. 

Bode몭s ward at the time of the incident, has been 
suspended on full pay and was unavailable for 
comment yesterday, but a spokeswizard for the 
hospital said in a statement, 몮St. Mungo몭s deeply 
regrets the death of Mr. Bode, whose health was 
improving steadily prior to this tragic accident. 

몮We have strict guidelines on the decorations 
permitted on our wards but it appears that Healer 
Strout, busy over the Christmas period, overlooked 
the dangers of the plant on Mr. Bode몭s bedside table. 
As his speech and mobility improved, Healer Strout 
encouraged Mr. Bode to look after the plant himself, 
unaware that it was not an innocent Flitterbloom, but 
a cutting of Devil몭s Snare, which, when touched by 
the convalescent Mr. Bode, throttled him instantly. 

몮St. Mungo몭s is as yet unable to account for the 
presence of the plant on the ward and asks any witch 
or wizard with information to come forward.몯 

몮Bode ...몯 said Ron. 몮Bode. It rings a bell...몯 

몮We saw him,몯 Hermione whispered. 몮In St. Mungo몭s, 
remember? He was in the bed opposite Lockhart몭s, 
just lying there, staring at the ceiling. And we saw the 
Devil몭s Snare arrive. She 멪 the Healer 멪 said it was a 
Christmas present...몯 

Harry looked back at the story. A feeling of horror was 
rising like bile in his throat. 

| 698Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮How come we didn몭t recognize Devil몭s Snare ... ? 
We몭ve seen it before ... we could몭ve stopped this from 
happening ...몯 

몮Who expects Devil몭s Snare to turn up in a hospital 
disguised as a potted plant?몯 said Ron sharply. 몮It몭s 
not our fault, whoever sent it to the bloke is to blame! 
They must be a real prat, why didn몭t they check what 
they were buying?몯 

몮Oh come on, Ron!몯 said Hermione shakily, 몮I don몭t 
think anyone could put Devil몭s Snare in a pot and not 
realize it tries to kill whoever touches it? This 멪 this 
was murder... A clever murder, as well... If the plant 
was sent anonymously, how몭s anyone ever going to 
find out who did it?몯 

Harry was not thinking about Devil몭s Snare. He was 
remembering taking the lift down to the ninth level of 
the Ministry on the day of his hearing, and the 
sallow-faced man who had got in on the Atrium level. 

몮I met Bode,몯 he said slowly. 몮I saw him at the 
Ministry with your dad ...몯 

Ron몭s mouth fell open. 

몮I몭ve heard Dad talk about him at home! He was an 
Unspeakable 멪 he worked in the Department of 
Mysteries!몯 

They looked at one another for a moment, then 
Hermione pulled the newspaper back toward her, 
closed it, glared for a moment at the pictures of the 
ten escaped Death Eaters on the front, then leapt to 
her feet. 

몮Where are you going?몯 said Ron, startled. 



| 699Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮To send a letter,몯 said Hermione, swinging her bag 
onto her shoulder. 몮It ... well, I don몭t know whether ... 
but it몭s worth trying ... and I몭m the only one who can 



몮I hate it when she does that,몯 grumbled Ron as he 
and Harry got up from the table and made their own, 
slower way out of the Great Hall. 몮Would it kill her to 
tell us what she몭s up to for once? It몭d take her about 
ten more seconds 멪 hey, Hagrid!몯 

Hagrid was standing beside the doors into the 
entrance hall, waiting for a crowd of Ravenclaws to 
pass. He was still as heavily bruised as he had been 
on the day he had come back from his mission to the 
giants and there was a new cut right across the 
bridge of his nose. 

몮All righ몭, you two?몯 he said, trying to muster a smile 
but managing only a kind of pained grimace. 

몮Are you okay, Hagrid?몯 asked Harry, following him as 
he lumbered after the Ravenclaws. 

몮Fine, fine,몯 said Hagrid with a feeble assumption of 
airiness; he waved a hand and narrowly missed 
concussing a frightened-looking Professor Vector, who 
was passing. 몮Jus몭 busy, yeh know, usual stuff 멪 
lessons ter prepare 멪 couple o몭 salamanders got scale 
rot 멪 an몭 I몭m on probation,몯 he mumbled. 

몮 You몭re on probation?몯 said Ron very loudly, so that 
many students passing looked around curiously. 
몮Sorry 멪 I mean 멪 you몭re on probation?몯 he 
whispered. 

몮Yeah,몯 said Hagrid. 몮 몭S몭no more몭n I expected, ter tell 
yeh the truth. Yeh migh몭 not몭ve picked up on it, bu몭 
that inspection didn몭 go too well, yeh know ... 

| 700Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




anyway,몯 he sighed deeply. 몮Bes몭 go an mb a bit more 
chili powder on them salamanders or their tails몭ll be 
hangin몭 off 몭em next. See yeh, Harry ... Ron ...몯 

He trudged away, out the front doors and down the 
stone steps into the damp grounds. Harry watched 
him go, wondering how much more bad news he 
could stand. 

The fact that Hagrid was now on probation became 
common knowledge within the school over the next 
few days, but to Harry몭s indignation, hardly anybody 
appeared to be upset about it; indeed, some people, 
Draco Malfoy prominent among them, seemed 
positively gleeful. As for the freakish death of an 
obscure Department of Mysteries employee in St. 
Mungo몭s, Harry, Ron, and Hermione seemed to be the 
only people who knew or cared. There was only one 
topic of conversation in the corridors now: the ten 
escaped Death Eaters, whose story had finally filtered 
through the school from those few people who read 
the newspapers. Rumors were flying that some of the 
convicts had been spotted in Hogsmeade, that they 
were supposed to be hiding out in the Shrieking 
Shack and that they were going to break into 
Hogwarts, just as Sirius Black had done. 

Those who came from Wizarding families had grown 
up hearing the names of these Death Eaters spoken 
with almost as much fear as Voldemort몭s; the crimes 
they had committed during the days of Voldemort몭s 
reign of terror were legendary. There were relatives of 
their victims among the Hogwarts students, who now 
found themselves the unwilling objects of a gruesome 
sort of reflected fame as they walked the corridors: 
Susan Bones, who had an uncle, aunt, and cousins 
who had all died at the hands of one of the ten, said 
miserably during Herbology that she now had a good 
idea what it felt like to be Harry. 

| 701Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮And I don몭t know how you stand it, it몭s horrible,몯 she 
said bluntly, dumping far too much dragon manure 
on her tray of Screechsnap seedlings, causing them to 
wriggle and squeak in discomfort. 

It was true that Harry was the subject of much 
renewed muttering and pointing in the corridors these 
days, yet he thought he detected a slight difference in 
the tone of the whisperers몭 voices. They sounded 
curious rather than hostile now, and once or twice he 
was sure he overheard snatches of conversation that 
suggested that the speakers were not satisfied with 
the Prophet몭s version of how and why ten Death 
Eaters had managed to break out of Azkaban fortress. 
In their confusion and fear, these doubters now 
seemed to be turning to the only other explanation 
available to them, the one that Harry and 
Dumbledore had been expounding since the previous 
year. 

It was not only the students몭 mood that had changed. 
It was now quite common to come across two or three 
teachers conversing in low, urgent whispers in the 
corridors, breaking off their conversations the 
moment they saw students approaching. 

몮They obviously can몭t talk freely in the staffroom 
anymore,몯 said Hermione in a low voice, as she, 

Harry, and Ron passed Professors McGonagall, 
Flitwick, and Sprout huddled together outside the 
Charms classroom one day. 몮Not with Umbridge 
there.몯 

몮Reckon they know anything new?몯 said Ron, gazing 
back over his shoulder at the three teachers. 

몮If they do, we몭re not going to hear about it, are we?몯 
said Harry angrily. 몮Not after Decree ... What number 
are we on now?몯 

| 702Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




For new signs had appeared on the house notice 
boards the morning after news of the Azkaban 
breakout: 

멪 BY ORDER OF 멪 

THE HIGH INQUISITOR OF HOGWARTS 

Teachers are hereby banned from giving students any 
information that is not strictly related to the subjects 
they are paid to teach. 

The above is in accordance with 

Educational Decree Number Twenty-six. 

Signed: 

Dolores Jane Umbridge 
HIGH INQUISITOR 

This latest decree had been the subject of a great 
number of jokes among the students. Lee Jordan had 
pointed out to Umbridge that by the terms of the new 
rule she was not allowed to tell Fred and George off 
for playing Exploding Snap in the back of the class. 

몮Exploding Snap몭s got nothing to do with Defense 
Against the Dark Arts, Professor! That몭s not 
information relating to your subject!몯 

When Harry next saw Lee, the back of his hand was 
bleeding rather badly. Harry recommended essence of 
murtlap. 

Harry had thought that the breakout from Azkaban 
might have humbled Umbridge a little, that she might 



| 703Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




have been abashed at the catastrophe that had 
occurred right under her beloved Fudge몭s nose. It 
seemed, however, to have only intensified her furious 
desire to bring every aspect of life at Hogwarts under 
her personal control. She seemed determined at the 
very least to achieve a sacking before long, and the 
only question was whether it would be Professor 
Trelawney or Hagrid who went first. 

Every single Divination and Care of Magical Creatures 
lesson was now conducted in the presence of 
Umbridge and her clipboard. She lurked by the fire in 
the heavily perfumed tower room, interrupting 
Professor Trelawney몭s increasingly hysterical talks 
with difficult questions about Ornithomancy and 
Heptomology, insisting that she predict students몭 
answers before they gave them and demanding that 
she demonstrate her skill at the crystal ball, the tea 
leaves, and the rune stones in turn. Harry thought 
that Professor Trelawney might soon crack under the 
strain; several times he passed her in the corridors (in 
itself a very unusual occurrence as she generally 
remained in her tower room), muttering wildly to 
herself, wringing her hands, and shooting terrified 
glances over her shoulder, all the time giving off a 
powerful smell of cooking sherry. If he had not been 
so worried about Hagrid, he would have felt sorry for 
her 멪 but if one of them was to be ousted out of a 
job, there could be only one choice for Harry as to 
who should remain. 

Unfortunately, Harry could not see that Hagrid was 
putting up a better show than Trelawney. Though he 
seemed to be following Hermione몭s advice and had 
shown them nothing more frightening than a crup, a 
creature indistinguishable from a Jack Russell terrier 
except for its forked tail, since before Christmas, he 
also seemed to have lost his nerve. He was oddly 
distracted and jumpy in lessons, losing the thread of 
| 704Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




what he was saying while talking to the class, 
answering questions wrongly and glancing anxiously 
at Umbridge all the time. He was also more distant 
with Harry, Ron, and Hermione than he had ever 
been before, expressly forbidding them to visit him 
after dark. 

몮If she catches yeh, it몭ll be all of our necks on the 
line,몯 he told them flatly, and with no desire to do 
anything that jeopardized his job further, they 
abstained from walking down to his hut in the 
evenings. It seemed to Harry that Umbridge was 
steadily depriving him of everything that made his life 
at Hogwarts worth living: visits to Hagrid몭s house, 
letters from Sirius, his Firebolt, and Quidditch. He 
took his revenge the only way he had: redoubling his 
efforts for the D.A. 

Harry was pleased to see that all of them, even 
Zacharias Smith, had been spurred to work harder 
than ever by the news that ten more Death Eaters 
were now on the loose, but in nobody was this 
improvement more pronounced than in Neville. The 
news of his parents몭 attacker몭s escape had wrought a 
strange and even slightly alarming change in him. He 
had not once mentioned his meeting with Harry, Ron, 
and Hermione on the closed ward in St. Mungo몭s, and 
taking their lead from him, they had kept quiet about 
it too. Nor had he said anything on the subject of 
Bellatrix and her fellow torturers몭 escape; in fact, he 
barely spoke during D.A. meetings anymore, but 
worked relentlessly on every new jinx and 
countercurse Harry taught them, his plump face 
screwed up in concentration, apparently indifferent to 
injuries or accidents, working harder than anyone 
else in the room. He was improving so fast it was 
quite unnerving and when Harry taught them the 
Shield Charm, a means of deflecting minor jinxes so 



| 705Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




that they rebounded upon the attacker, only 
Hermione mastered the charm faster than Neville. 

In fact Harry would have given a great deal to be 
making as much progress at Occlumency as Neville 
was making during D.A. meetings. Harry몭s sessions 
with Snape, which had started badly enough, were 
not improving; on the contrary, Harry felt he was 
getting worse with every lesson. 

Before he had started studying Occlumency, his scar 
had prickled occasionally, usually during the night, or 
else following one of those strange flashes of 
Voldemort몭s thoughts or moods that he experienced 
every now and then. Nowadays, however, his scar 
hardly ever stopped prickling, and he often felt 
lurches of annoyance or cheerfulness that were 
unrelated to what was happening to him at the time, 
which were always accompanied by a particularly 
painful twinge from his scar. He had the horrible 
impression that he was slowly turning into a kind of 
aerial that was tuned in to tiny fluctuations in 
Voldemort몭s mood, and he was sure he could date this 
increased sensitivity firmly from his first Occlumency 
lesson with Snape. What was more, he was now 
dreaming about walking down the corridor toward the 
entrance to the Department of Mysteries almost every 
night, dreams that always culminated in him 
standing longingly in front of the plain black door. 

몮Maybe it몭s a bit like an illness,몯 said Hermione, 
looking concerned when Harry confided in her and 
Ron. 몮A fever or something. It has to get worse before 
it gets better.몯 

몮It몭s lessons with Snape that are making it worse,몯 
said Harry flatly. 몮I몭m getting sick of my scar hurting, 
and I몭m getting bored walking down that corridor 
every night.몯 He rubbed his forehead angrily. 몮I just 

| 706Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




wish the door would open, I몭m sick of standing staring 
at it 멪 몯 

몮That몭s not funny,몯 said Hermione sharply. 
몮Dumbledore doesn몭t want you to have dreams about 
that corridor at all, or he wouldn몭t have asked Snape 
to teach you Occlumency. You몭re just going to have to 
work a bit harder in your lessons.몯 

몮I am working!몯 said Harry, nettled. 몮You try it 
sometime, Snape trying to get inside your head, it몭s 
not a bundle of laughs, you know!몯 

몮Maybe ...몯 said Ron slowly. 

몮Maybe what?몯 said Hermione rather snappishly. 

몮Maybe it몭s not Harry몭s fault he can몭t close his mind,몯 
said Ron darkly. 

몮What do you mean?몯 said Hermione. 

몮Well, maybe Snape isn몭t really trying to help Harry...몯 

Harry and Hermione stared at him. Ron looked darkly 
and meaningfully from one to the other. 

몮Maybe,몯 he said again in a lower voice, 몮he몭s actually 
trying to open Harry몭s mind a bit wider . . . make it 
easier for You-Know 멪 몯 

몮Shut up, Ron,몯 said Hermione angrily. 몮How many 
times have you suspected Snape, and when have you 
ever been right? Dumbledore trusts him, he works for 
the Order, that ought to be enough.몯 

몮He used to be a Death Eater,몯 said Ron stubbornly. 
몮And we몭ve never seen proof that he really swapped 
sides...몯 

| 707Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Dumbledore trusts him,몯 Hermione repeated. 몮And if 
we can몭t trust Dumbledore, we can몭t trust anyone.몯 

With so much to worry about and so much to do 멪 
startling amounts of homework that frequently kept 
the fifth years working until past midnight, secret 
D.A. meetings, and regular classes with Snape 멪 
January seemed to be passing alarmingly fast. Before 
Harry knew it, February had arrived, bringing with it 
wetter and warmer weather and the prospect of the 
second Hogsmeade visit of the year. Harry had had 
very little time to spare on conversations with Cho 
since they had agreed to visit the village together, but 
suddenly found himself facing a Valentine몭s Day 
spent entirely in her company. 

On the morning of the fourteenth he dressed 
particularly carefully. He and Ron arrived at breakfast 
just in time for the arrival of the post owls. Hedwig 
was not there 멪 not that he had expected her 멪 but 
Hermione was tugging a letter from the beak of an 
unfamiliar brown owl as they sat down. 

몮And about time! If it hadn몭t come today ...몯 she said 
eagerly, tearing open the envelope and pulling out a 
small piece of parchment. Her eyes sped from left to 
right as she read through the message and a grimly 
pleased expression spread across her face. 

몮Listen, Harry,몯 she said, looking up at him. 몮This is 
really important... Do you think you could meet me in 
the Three Broomsticks around midday?몯 

몮Well ... I dunno,몯 said Harry dubiously. 몮Cho might 
be expecting me to spend the whole day with her. We 
never said what we were going to do.몯 

몮Well, bring her along if you must,몯 said Hermione 
urgently. 몮But will you come?몯 

| 708Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Well ... all right, but why?몯 



몮I haven몭t got time to tell you now, I몭ve got to answer 
this quickly 멪 몯 

And she hurried out of the Great Hall, the letter 
clutched in one hand and a piece of uneaten toast in 
the other. 

몮Are you coming?몯 Harry asked Ron, but he shook his 
head, looking glum. 

몮I can몭t come into Hogsmeade at all, Angelina wants a 
full day몭s training. Like it몭s going to help 멪 we몭re the 
worst team I몭ve ever seen. You should see Sloper and 
Kirke, they몭re pathetic, even worse than I am.몯 He 
heaved a great sigh. 몮I dunno why Angelina won몭t just 
let me resign...몯 

몮It몭s because you몭re good when you몭re on form, that몭s 
why,몯 said Harry irritably. 

He found it very hard to be sympathetic to Ron몭s 
plight when he himself would have given almost 
anything to be playing in the forthcoming match 
against Hufflepuff. Ron seemed to notice Harry몭s tone, 
because he did not mention Quidditch again during 
breakfast, and there was a slight frostiness in the way 
they said good-bye to each other shortly afterward. 
Ron departed for the Quidditch pitch and Harry, after 
attempting to flatten his hair while staring at his 
reflection in the back of a teaspoon, proceeded alone 
to the entrance hall to meet Cho, feeling very 
apprehensive and wondering what on earth they were 
going to talk about. 

She was waiting for him a little to the side of the oak 
front doors, looking very pretty with her hair tied 
back in a long ponytail. Harry몭s feet seemed to be too 

| 709Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




big for his body as he walked toward her, and he was 
suddenly horribly aware of his arms and how stupid 
they looked swinging at his sides. 

몮Hi,몯 said Cho slightly breathlessly. 

몮Hi,몯 said Harry. 

They stared at each other for a moment, then Harry 
said, 몮Well 멪 er 멪 shall we go, then?몯 

몮Oh 멪 yes ...몯 

They joined the queue of people being signed out by 
Filch, occasionally catching each other몭s eye and 
grinning shiftily, but not talking to each other. Harry 
was relieved when they reached the fresh air, finding 
it easier to walk along in silence than just stand there 
looking awkward. It was a fresh, breezy sort of day 
and as they passed the Quidditch stadium, Harry 
glimpsed Ron and Ginny skimming over the stands 
and felt a horrible pang that he was not up there with 
them... 

몮You really miss it, don몭t you?몯 said Cho. 

He looked around and saw her watching him. 

몮Yeah,몯 sighed Harry. 몮I do.몯 

몮Remember the first time we played against each 
other, in the third year?몯 she asked him. 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry, grinning. 몮You kept blocking me.몯 

몮And Wood told you not to be a gentleman and knock 
me off my broom if you had to,몯 said Cho, smiling 
reminiscently. 몮I heard he got taken on by Pride of 
Portree, is that right?몯 

| 710Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Nah, it was Puddlemere United, I saw him at the 
World Cup last year.몯 

몮Oh, I saw you there too, remember? We were on the 
same campsite. It was really good, wasn몭t it?몯 

The subject of the Quidditch World Cup carried them 
all the way down the drive and out through the gates. 
Harry could hardly believe how easy it was to talk to 
her, no more difficult, in fact, than talking to Ron and 
Hermione, and he was just starting to feel confident 
and cheerful when a large gang of Slytherin girls 
passed them, including Pansy Parkinson. 

몮Potter and Chang!몯 screeched Pansy to a chorus of 
snide giggles. 몮Urgh, Chang, I don몭t think much of 
your taste... At least Diggory was good-looking!몯 

They sped up, talking and shrieking in a pointed 
fashion with many exaggerated glances back at Harry 
and Cho, leaving an embarrassed silence in their 
wake. Harry could think of nothing else to say about 
Quidditch, and Cho, slightly flushed, was watching 
her feet. 

몮So ... where d몭you want to go?몯 Harry asked as they 
entered Hogsmeade. The High Street was full of 
students ambling up and down, peering into the shop 
windows and messing about together on the 
pavements. 

몮Oh ... I don몭t mind,몯 said Cho, shrugging. 몮Um ... 
shall we just have a look in the shops or something?몯 

They wandered toward Dervish and Banges. A large 
poster had been stuck up in the window and a few 
Hogsmeaders were looking at it. They moved aside 
when Harry and Cho approached and Harry found 
himself staring once more at the ten pictures of the 
| 711Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




escaped Death Eaters. The poster (몮By Order of the 
Ministry of Magic몯) offered a thousand-Galleon reward 
to any witch or wizard with information relating to the 
recapture of any of the convicts pictured. 

몮It몭s funny, isn몭t it,몯 said Cho in a low voice, also 
gazing up at the pictures of the Death Eaters. 
몮Remember when that Sirius Black escaped, and 
there were dementors all over Hogsmeade looking for 
him? And now ten Death Eaters are on the loose and 
there aren몭t dementors anywhere...몯 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry, tearing his eyes away from 
Bellatrix Lestrange몭s face to glance up and down the 
High Street. 몮Yeah, it is weird...몯 

He was not sorry that there were no dementors 
nearby, but now he came to think of it, their absence 
was highly significant. They had not only let the 
Death Eaters escape, they were not bothering to look 
for them... It looked as though they really were 
outside Ministry control now. 

The ten escaped Death Eaters were staring out of 
every shop window he and Cho passed. It started to 
rain as they passed Scrivenshaft몭s; cold, heavy drops 
of water kept hitting Harry몭s face and the back of his 
neck. 

몮Um ... d몭you want to get a coffee?몯 said Cho 
tentatively, as the rain began to fall more heavily. 

몮Yeah, all right,몯 said Harry, looking around. 몮Where 
멪 ?몯 

몮Oh, there몭s a really nice place just up here, haven몭t 
you ever been to Madam Puddifoot몭s?몯 she said 
brightly, and she led him up a side road and into a 
small tea shop that Harry had never noticed before. It 

| 712Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




was a cramped, steamy little place where everything 
seemed to have been decorated with frills or bows. 
Harry was reminded unpleasantly of Umbridge몭s 
office. 

몮Cute, isn몭t it?몯 said Cho happily. 

몮Er ... yeah,몯 said Harry untruthfully. 

몮Look, she몭s decorated it for Valentine몭s Day!몯 said 
Cho, indicating a number of golden cherubs that were 
hovering over each of the small, circular tables, 
occasionally throwing pink confetti over the 
occupants. 

몮Aaah ...몯 

They sat down at the last remaining table, which was 
situated in the steamy window. Roger Davies, the 
Ravenclaw Quidditch Captain, was sitting about a 
foot and a half away with a pretty blonde girl. They 
were holding hands. The sight made Harry feel 
uncomfortable, particularly when, looking around the 
tea shop, he saw that it was full of nothing but 
couples, all of them holding hands. Perhaps Cho 
would expect him to hold her hand. 

몮What can I get you, m몭dears?몯 said Madam 
Puddifoot, a very stout woman with a shiny black 
bun, squeezing between their table and Roger 
Davies몭s with great difficulty. 

몮Two coffees, please,몯 said Cho. 

In the time it took for their coffees to arrive, Roger 
Davies and his girlfriend started kissing over their 
sugar bowl. Harry wished they wouldn몭t; he felt that 
Davies was setting a standard with which Cho would 
soon expect him to compete. He felt his face growing 
| 713Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




hot and tried staring out of the window, but it was so 
steamed up he could not see the street outside. To 
postpone the moment when he had to look at Cho he 
stared up at the ceiling as though examining the 
paintwork and received a handful of confetti in the 
face from their hovering cherub. 

After a few more painful minutes Cho mentioned 
Umbridge; Harry seized on the subject with relief and 
they passed a few happy moments abusing her, but 
the subject had already been so thoroughly canvassed 
during D.A. meetings it did not last very long. Silence 
fell again. Harry was very conscious of the slurping 
noises coming from the table next door and cast 
wildly around for something else to say. 

몮Er ... listen, d몭you want to come with me to the Three 
Broomsticks at lunchtime? I몭m meeting Hermione 
Granger there.몯 

Cho raised her eyebrows. 

몮You몭re meeting Hermione Granger? Today?몯 

몮Yeah. Well, she asked me to, so I thought I would. 
D몭you want to come with me? She said it wouldn몭t 
matter if you did.몯 

몮Oh ... well ... that was nice of her.몯 

But Cho did not sound as though she thought it was 
nice at all; on the contrary, her tone was cold and all 
of a sudden she looked rather forbidding. 

A few more minutes passed in total silence, Harry 
drinking his coffee so fast that he would soon need a 
fresh cup. Next door, Roger Davies and his girlfriend 
seemed glued together by the lips. 



| 714Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Cho몭s hand was lying on the table beside her coffee, 
and Harry was feeling a mounting pressure to take 
hold of it. Just do it, he told himself, as a fount of 
mingled panic and excitement surged up inside his 
chest. Just reach out and grab it... Amazing how much 
more difficult it was to extend his arm twelve inches 
and touch her hand than to snatch a speeding Snitch 
from midair ... 

But just as he moved his hand forward, Cho took 
hers off the table. She was now watching Roger 
Davies kissing his girlfriend with a mildly interested 
expression. 

몮He asked me out, you know,몯 she said in a quiet 
voice. 몮A couple of weeks ago. Roger. I turned him 
down, though.몯 

Harry, who had grabbed the sugar bowl to excuse his 
sudden lunging movement across the table, could not 
think why she was telling him this. If she wished she 
were sitting at the table next door being heartily 
kissed by Roger Davies, why had she agreed to come 
out with him? 

He said nothing. Their cherub threw another handful 
of confetti over them; some of it landed in the last 
cold dregs of coffee Harry had been about to drink. 

몮I came in here with Cedric last year,몯 said Cho. 

In the second or so it took for him to take in what she 
had said, Harry몭s insides had become glacial. He 
could not believe she wanted to talk about Cedric 
now, while kissing couples surrounded them and a 
cherub floated over their heads. 

Cho몭s voice was rather higher when she spoke again. 



| 715Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I몭ve been meaning to ask you for ages... Did Cedric 멪 
did he m-m-mention me at all before he died?몯 

This was the very last subject on earth Harry wanted 
to discuss, and least of all with Cho. 

몮Well 멪 no 멪 몯 he said quietly. 몮There 멪 there wasn몭t 
time for him to say anything. Erm ... so ... d몭you ... 
d몭you get to see a lot of Quidditch in the holidays? 

You support the Tornados, right?몯 

His voice sounded falsely bright and cheery. To his 
horror, he saw that her eyes were swimming with 
tears again, just as they had been after the last D.A. 
meeting before Christmas. 

몮Look,몯 he said desperately, leaning in so that nobody 
else could overhear, 몮let몭s not talk about Cedric right 
now... Let몭s talk about something else...몯 

But this, apparently, was quite the wrong thing to 
say. 

몮I thought,몯 she said, tears spattering down onto the 
table. 몮I thought you몭d u-u-understand! I need to talk 
about it! Surely you n-need to talk about it t-too! I 
mean, you saw it happen, d-didn몭t you?몯 

Everything was going nightmarishly wrong; Roger 
Davies몭 girlfriend had even unglued herself to look 
around at Cho crying. 

몮Well 멪 I have talked about it,몯 Harry said in a 
whisper, 몮to Ron and Hermione, but 멪 몯 

몮Oh, you몭ll talk to Hermione Granger!몯 she said 
shrilly, her face now shining with tears, and several 
more kissing couples broke apart to stare. 몮But you 
won몭t talk to me! P-perhaps it would be best if we just 

| 716Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




... just p-paid and you went and met up with 
Hermione G-Granger, like you obviously want to!몯 

Harry stared at her, utterly bewildered, as she seized 
a frilly napkin and dabbed at her shining face with it. 

몮Cho?몯 he said weakly, wishing Roger would seize his 
girlfriend and start kissing her again to stop her 
goggling at him and Cho. 

몮Go on, leave!몯 she said, now crying into the napkin. 

몮I don몭t know why you asked me out in the first place 
if you몭re going to make arrangements to meet other 
girls right after me... How many are you meeting after 
Hermione?몯 

몮It몭s not like that!몯 said Harry, and he was so relieved 
at finally understanding what she was annoyed about 
that he laughed, which he realized a split second too 
late was a mistake. 

Cho sprang to her feet. The whole tearoom was quiet, 
and everybody was watching them now. 

몮I몭ll see you around, Harry,몯 she said dramatically, 
and hiccuping slightly she dashed to the door, 
wrenched it open, and hurried off into the pouring 
rain. 

몮Cho!몯 Harry called after her, but the door had 
already swung shut behind her with a tuneful tinkle. 

There was total silence within the tea shop. Every eye 
was upon Harry. He threw a Galleon down onto the 
table, shook pink confetti out of his eyes, and 
followed Cho out of the door. 

It was raining hard now, and she was nowhere to be 
seen. He simply did not understand what had 

| 717Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




happened; half an hour ago they had been getting 
along fine. 

몮Women!몯 he muttered angrily, sloshing down the 
rain-washed street with his hands in his pockets. 
몮What did she want to talk about Cedric for anyway? 
Why does she always want to drag up a subject that 
makes her act like a human hosepipe?몯 

He turned right and broke into a splashy run, and 
within minutes he was turning into the doorway of 
the Three Broomsticks. He knew he was too early to 
meet Hermione, but he thought it likely there would 
be someone in here with whom he could spend the 
intervening time. He shook his wet hair out of his 
eyes and looked around. Hagrid was sitting alone in a 
corner, looking morose. 

몮Hi, Hagrid!몯 he said, when he had squeezed through 
the crammed tables and pulled up a chair beside him. 

Hagrid jumped and looked down at Harry as though 
he barely recognized him. Harry saw that he had two 
fresh cuts on his face and several new bruises. 

몮Oh, it몭s you, Harry,몯 said Hagrid. 몮You all righ몭?몯 

몮Yeah, I몭m fine,몯 lied Harry; in fact, next to this 
battered and mournful-looking Hagrid, he felt he did 
not have much to complain about. 몮Er 멪 are you 
okay?몯 

몮Me?몯 said Hagrid. 몮Oh yeah, I몭m grand, Harry, 
grand...몯 

He gazed into the depths of his pewter tankard, which 
was the size of a large bucket, and sighed. Harry did 
not know what to say to him. They sat side by side in 



| 718Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




silence for a moment. Then Hagrid said abruptly, 몮In 
the same boat, you an몭 me, aren몭 we, Harry?몯 

몮Er 멪 몯 said Harry. 

몮Yeah ... I몭ve said it before... Both outsiders, like,몯 
said Hagrid, nodding wisely. 몮An몭 both orphans. Yeah 
... both orphans.몯 

He took a great swig from his tankard. 

몮Makes a diff몭rence, havin몭 a decent family,몯 he said. 
몮Me dad was decent. An몭 your mum an몭 dad were 
decent. If they몭d lived, life woulda bin diff몭rent, eh?몯 

몮Yeah ... I s몭pose,몯 said Harry cautiously. Hagrid 
seemed to be in a very strange mood. 

몮Family,몯 said Hagrid gloomily. 몮Whatever yeh say, 
blood몭s important...몯 

And he wiped a trickle of it out of his eye. 

몮Hagrid,몯 said Harry, unable to stop himself, 몮where 
are you getting all these injuries?몯 

몮Eh?몯 said Hagrid, looking startled. 몮Wha몭 injuries?몯 

몮All those!몯 said Harry, pointing at Hagrid 몭s face. 

몮Oh ... tha몭s jus몭 normal bumps an몭 bruises, Harry,몯 
said Hagrid dismissively. 몮I got a rough job.몯 

He drained his tankard, set it back upon the table, 
and got to his feet. 

몮I몭ll be seein몭yeh, Harry... Take care now...몯 



| 719Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




And he lumbered out of the pub looking wretched and 
then disappeared into the torrential rain. Harry 
watched him go, feeling miserable. Hagrid was 
unhappy and he was hiding something, but he 
seemed determined not to accept help. What was 
going on? But before Harry could think about the 
matter any further, he heard a voice calling his name. 

몮Harry! Harry, over here!몯 

Hermione was waving at him from the other side of 
the room. He got up and made his way toward her 
through the crowded pub. He was still a few tables 
away when he realized that Hermione was not alone; 
she was sitting at a table with the unlikeliest pair of 
drinking mates he could ever have imagined: Luna 
Lovegood and none other than Rita Skeeter, ex- 
journalist on the Daily Prophet and one of Hermione몭s 
least favorite people in the world. 

몮You몭re early!몯 said Hermione, moving along to give 
him room to sit down. 몮I thought you were with Cho, I 
wasn몭t expecting you for another hour at least!몯 

몮Cho?몯 said Rita at once, twisting around in her seat 
to stare avidly at Harry. 몮A girl?몯 

She snatched up her crocodile-skin handbag and 
groped within it. 

몮It몭s none of your business if Harry몭s been with a 
hundred girls,몯 Hermione told Rita coolly. 몮So you can 
put that away right now.몯 

Rita had been on the point of withdrawing an acid- 
green quill from her bag. Looking as though she had 
been forced to swallow Stinksap, she snapped her bag 
shut again. 



| 720Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮What are you up to?몯 Harry asked, sitting down and 
staring from Rita to Luna to Hermione. 



몮Little Miss Perfect was just about to tell me when you 
arrived,몯 said Rita, taking a large slurp of her drink. 몮I 
suppose I몭m allowed to talk to him, am I?몯 she shot at 
Hermione. 

몮Yes, I suppose you are,몯 said Hermione coldly. 

Unemployment did not suit Rita. The hair that had 
once been set in elaborate curls now hung lank and 
unkempt around her face. The scarlet paint on her 
two-inch talons was chipped and there were a couple 
of false jewels missing from her winged glasses. She 
took another great gulp of her drink and said out of 
the corner of her mouth, 몮Pretty girl, is she, Harry?몯 

몮One more word about Harry몭s love life and the deal몭s 
off and that몭s a promise,몯 said Hermione irritably. 

몮What deal?몯 said Rita, wiping her mouth on the back 
of her hand. 몮You haven몭t mentioned a deal yet, Miss 
Prissy, you just told me to turn up. Oh, one of these 
days ...몯 She took a deep shuddering breath. 

몮Yes, yes, one of these days you몭ll write more horrible 
stories about Harry and me,몯 said Hermione 
indifferently. 몮Find someone who cares, why don몭t 
you?몯 

몮They몭ve run plenty of horrible stories about Harry 
this year without my help,몯 said Rita, shooting a 
sideways look at him over the top of her glass and 
adding in a rough whisper, 몮How has that made you 
feel, Harry? Betrayed? Distraught? Misunderstood?몯 

몮He feels angry, of course,몯 said Hermione in a hard, 
clear voice. 몮Because he몭s told the Minister of Magic 

| 721Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




the truth and the Minister몭s too much of an idiot to 
believe him.몯 

몮So you actually stick to it, do you, that He-Who- 
Must-Not-Be-Named is back?몯 said Rita, lowering her 
glass and subjecting Harry to a piercing stare while 
her finger strayed longingly to the clasp of the 
crocodile bag. 몮You stand by all this garbage 
Dumbledore몭s been telling everybody about You- 
Know-Who returning and you being the sole witness 
멪 ?몯 

몮I wasn몭t the sole witness,몯 snarled Harry. 몮There were 
a dozen-odd Death Eaters there as well. Want their 
names?몯 

몮I몭d love them,몯 breathed Rita, now fumbling in her 
bag once more and gazing at him as though he was 
the most beautiful thing she had ever seen. 몮A great 
bold headline: 몬Potter Accuses ...몭A subheading: 

몬Harry Potter Names Death Eaters Still Among Us.몭 And 
then, beneath a nice big photograph of you: 

몬Disturbed teenage survivor of You-Know-Who몭s attack, 
Harry Potter, 1 5, caused outrage yesterday by 
accusing respectable and prominent members of the 
Wizarding community of being Death Eaters...몭 몯 

The Quick-Quotes Quill was actually in her hand and 
halfway to her mouth when the rapturous expression 
died out of her face. 

몮But of course,몯 she said, lowering the quill and 
looking daggers at Hermione, 몮Little Miss Perfect 
wouldn몭t want that story out there, would she?몯 

몮As a matter of fact,몯 said Hermione sweetly, 몮that몭s 
exactly what Little Miss Perfect does want.몯 



| 722Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Rita stared at her. So did Harry. Luna, on the other 
hand, sang, 몮Weasley Is Our King몯 dreamily under her 
breath and stirred her drink with a cocktail onion on 
a stick. 

몮You want me to report what he says about He-Who- 
Must-Not-Be-Named?몯 Rita asked Hermione in a 
hushed voice. 

몮Yes, I do,몯 said Hermione. 몮The true story. All the 
facts. Exactly as Harry reports them. Hell give you all 
the details, hell tell you the names of the 
undiscovered Death Eaters he saw there, hell tell you 
what Voldemort looks like now 멪 oh, get a grip on 
yourself,몯 she added contemptuously, throwing a 
napkin across the table, for at the sound of 
Voldemort몭s name, Rita had jumped so badly that she 
had slopped half her glass of firewhisky down herself. 

Rita blotted the front of her grubby raincoat, still 
staring at Hermione. Then she said baldly, 몮The 
Prophet wouldn몭t print it. In case you haven몭t noticed, 
nobody believes his cock-and-bull story. Everyone 
thinks he몭s delusional. Now, if you let me write the 
story from that angle 멪 몯 

몮We don몭t need another story about how Harry몭s lost 
his marbles!몯 said Hermione angrily. 몮We몭ve had 
plenty of those already, thank you! I want him given 
the opportunity to tell the truth!몯 

몮There몭s no market for a story like that,몯 said Rita 
coldly. 

몮You mean the Prophet won몭t print it because Fudge 
won몭t let them,몯 said Hermione irritably. 

Rita gave Hermione a long, hard look. Then, leaning 
forward across the table toward her, she said in a 

| 723Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




businesslike tone, 몮All right, Fudge is leaning on the 
Prophet, but it comes to the same thing. They won몭t 
print a story that shows Harry in a good light. Nobody 
wants to read it. It몭s against the public mood. This 
last Azkaban breakout has got people quite worried 
enough. People just don몭t want to believe You-Know- 
Who몭s back.몯 

몮So the Daily Prophet exists to tell people what they 
want to hear, does it?몯 said Hermione scathingly. 

Rita sat up straight again, her eyebrows raised, and 
drained her glass of firewhisky. 

몮The Prophet exists to sell itself, you silly girl,몯 she 
said coldly. 

몮My dad thinks it몭s an awful paper,몯 said Luna, 
chipping into the conversation unexpectedly. Sucking 
on her cocktail onion, she gazed at Rita with her 
enormous, protuberant, slightly mad eyes. 몮He 
publishes important stories that he thinks the public 
needs to know. He doesn몭t care about making money.몯 

Rita looked disparagingly at Luna. 

몮I몭m guessing your father runs some stupid little 
village newsletter?몯 she said. 몮 Twenty-five Ways to 
Mingle with Muggles몭 and the dates of the next Bring- 
and-Fly Sale?몯 

몮No,몯 said Luna, dipping her onion back into her 
gillywater, 몮he몭s the editor of The Quibbler.몯 

Rita snorted so loudly that people at a nearby table 
looked around in alarm. 



| 724Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮 몬Important stories he thinks the public needs to 
know몭?몯 she said witheringly. 몮I could manure my 
garden with the contents of that rag.몯 

몮Well, this is your chance to raise the tone of it a bit, 
isn몭t it?몯 said Hermione pleasantly. 몮Luna says her 
father몭s quite happy to take Harry몭s interview. That몭s 
who몭ll be publishing it.몯 

Rita stared at them both for a moment and then let 
out a great whoop of laughter. 

몮 The Quibbleii몯 she said, cackling. 몮You think people 
will take him seriously if he몭s published in The 
Quibbler?몯 

몮Some people won몭t,몯 said Hermione in a level voice. 
몮But the Daily Prophet몭s version of the Azkaban 
breakout had some gaping holes in it. I think a lot of 
people will be wondering whether there isn몭t a better 
explanation of what happened, and if there몭s an 
alternative story available, even if it is published in a몯 
멪 she glanced sideways at Luna, 몮in a 멪 well, an 
unusual magazine 멪 I think they might be rather 
keen to read it.몯 

Rita did not say anything for a while, but eyed 
Hermione shrewdly, her head a little to one side. 

몮All right, let몭s say for a moment I몭ll do it,몯 she said 
abruptly. 몮What kind of fee am I going to get?몯 

몮I don몭t think Daddy exactly pays people to write for 
the magazine,몯 said Luna dreamily. 몮They do it 
because it몭s an honor, and, of course, to see their 
names in print.몯 



| 725Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Rita Skeeter looked as though the taste of Stinksap 
was strong in her mouth again as she rounded on 
Hermione. 몮I몭m supposed to do this for free?몯 

몮Well, yes,몯 said Hermione calmly, taking a sip of her 
drink. 몮Otherwise, as you very well know, I will inform 
the authorities that you are an unregistered 
Animagus. Of course, the Prophet might give you 
rather a lot for an insider몭s account of life in 
Azkaban...몯 

Rita looked as though she would have liked nothing 
better than to seize the paper umbrella sticking out of 
Hermione 몭s drink and thrust it up her nose. 

몮I don몭t suppose I몭ve got any choice, have I?몯 said Rita, 
her voice shaking slightly. She opened her crocodile 
bag once more, withdrew a piece of parchment, and 
raised her Quick-Quotes Quill. 

몮Daddy will be pleased,몯 said Luna brightly. A muscle 
twitched in Rita몭s jaw. 

몮Okay, Harry?몯 said Hermione, turning to him. 몮Ready 
to tell the public the truth?몯 

몮I suppose,몯 said Harry, watching Rita balancing the 
Quick-Quotes Quill at the ready on the parchment 
between them. 

몮Fire away, then, Rita,몯 said Hermione serenely, 
fishing a cherry out of the bottom of her glass. 



| 726Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 







SEEN AND UNFORESEEN 

Luna said vaguely that she did not know how soon 
Rita몭s interview with Harry would appear in The 
Quibbler, that her father was expecting a lovely long 
article on recent sightings of Crumple-Horned 
Snorkacks. 몮And, of course, that몭ll be a very 
important story, so Harry몭s might have to wait for the 
following issue,몯 said Luna. 

Harry had not found it an easy experience to talk 
about the night when Voldemort had returned. Rita 
had pressed him for every little detail, and he had 
given her everything he could remember, knowing 
that this was his one big opportunity to tell the world 
the truth. He wondered how people would react to the 
story. He guessed that it would confirm a lot of people 
in the view that he was completely insane, not least 
because his story would be appearing alongside utter 
rubbish about Crumple-Horned Snorkacks. But the 
breakout of Bellatrix Lestrange and her fellow Death 
Eaters had given Harry a burning desire to do 
something, whether it worked or not... 



| 727Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



몮Can몭t wait to see what Umbridge thinks of you going 
public,몯 said Dean, sounding awestruck at dinner on 
Monday night. Seamus was shoveling down large 
amounts of chicken-and-ham pie on Dean몭s other 
side, but Harry knew he was listening. 

몮It몭s the right thing to do, Harry,몯 said Neville, who 
was sitting opposite him. He was rather pale, but 
went on in a low voice, 몮It must have been ... tough ... 
talking about it... Was it?몯 

몮Yeah,몯 mumbled Harry, 몮but people have got to know 
what Voldemort몭s capable of, haven몭t they?몯 

몮That몭s right,몯 said Neville, nodding, 몮and his Death 
Eaters too ... People should know...몯 

Neville left his sentence hanging and returned to his 
baked potato. Seamus looked up, but when he caught 
Harry몭s eye he looked quickly back at his plate again. 
After a while Dean, Seamus, and Neville departed for 
the common room, leaving Harry and Hermione at the 
table waiting for Ron, who had not yet had dinner 
because of Quidditch practice. 

Cho Chang walked into the hall with her friend 
Marietta. Harry몭s stomach gave an unpleasant lurch, 
but she did not look over at the Gryffindor table and 
sat down with her back to him. 

몮Oh, I forgot to ask you,몯 said Hermione brightly, 
glancing over at the Ravenclaw table, 몮what happened 
on your date with Cho? How come you were back so 
early?몯 

몮Er ... well, it was ...몯 said Harry, pulling a dish of 
rhubarb crumble toward him and helping himself to 
seconds, 몮a complete fiasco, now that you mention it.몯 



| 728Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




And he told her what had happened in Madam 
Puddifoot몭s Tea Shop. 



"... so then,몯 he finished several minutes later, as the 
final bit of crumble disappeared, 몮she jumps up, 
right, and says 몬111 see you around, Harry,몭 and runs 
out of the place!몯 He put down his spoon and looked 
at Hermione. 몮I mean, what was all that about? What 
was going on?몯 

Hermione glanced over at the back of Cho몭s head and 
sighed. 몮Oh, Harry,몯 she said sadly. 몮Well, I몭m sorry, 
but you were a bit tactless.몯 

몮Me, tactless?몯 said Harry, outraged. 몮One minute we 
were getting on fine, next minute she was telling me 
that Roger Davies asked her out, and how she used to 
go and snog Cedric in that stupid tea shop 멪 how 
was I supposed to feel about that?몯 

몮Well, you see,몯 said Hermione, with the patient air of 
one explaining that one plus one equals two to an 
overemotional toddler, 몮you shouldn몭t have told her 
that you wanted to meet me halfway through your 
date.몯 

몮But, but,몯 spluttered Harry, 몮but 멪 you told me to 
meet you at twelve and to bring her along, how was I 
supposed to do that without telling her 멪 ?몯 

몮You should have told her differently몯 said Hermione, 
still with that maddeningly patient air. 몮You should 
have said it was really annoying, but I몭d made you 
promise to come along to the Three Broomsticks, and 
you really didn몭t want to go, you몭d much rather spend 
the whole day with her, but unfortunately you 
thought you really ought to meet me and would she 
please, please come along with you, and hopefully 
you몭d be able to get away more quickly? And it might 
| 729Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




have been a good idea to mention how ugly you think 
I am too,몯 Hermione added as an afterthought. 

몮But I don몭t think you몭re ugly,몯 said Harry, bemused. 

Hermione laughed. 

몮Harry, you몭re worse than Ron... Well, no, you몭re not,몯 
she sighed, as Ron himself came stumping into the 
Hall splattered with mud and looking grumpy. 몮Look 
멪 you upset Cho when you said you were going to 
meet me, so she tried to make you jealous. It was her 
way of trying to find out how much you liked her.몯 

몮Is that what she was doing?몯 said Harry as Ron 
dropped onto the bench opposite them and pulled 
every dish within reach toward himself. 몮Well, 
wouldn몭t it have been easier if she몭d just asked me 
whether I liked her better than you?몯 

몮Girls don몭t often ask questions like that,몯 said 
Hermione. 

몮Well, they should!몯 said Harry forcefully. 몮Then I 
could몭ve just told her I fancy her, and she wouldn몭t 
have had to get herself all worked up again about 
Cedric dying!몯 

몮I몭m not saying what she did was sensible,몯 said 
Hermione, as Ginny joined them, just as muddy as 
Ron and looking equally disgruntled. 몮I몭m just trying 
to make you see how she was feeling at the time.몯 

몮You should write a book,몯 Ron told Hermione as he 
cut up his potatoes, 몮translating mad things girls do 
so boys can understand them.몯 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry fervently, looking over at the 
Ravenclaw table. Cho had just got up; still not looking 

| 730Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




at him, she left the Great Hall. Feeling rather 
depressed, he looked back at Ron and Ginny. 몮So, 
how was Quidditch practice?몯 

몮It was a nightmare,몯 said Ron in a surly voice. 

몮Oh come on,몯 said Hermione, looking at Ginny, 몮I몭m 
sure it wasn몭t that 멪 몯 

몮Yes, it was,몯 said Ginny. 몮It was appalling. Angelina 
was nearly in tears by the end of it.몯 

Ron and Ginny went off for baths after dinner; Harry 
and Hermione returned to the busy Gryffindor 
common room and their usual pile of homework. 
Harry had been struggling with a new star chart for 
Astronomy for half an hour when Fred and George 
turned up. 

몮Ron and Ginny not here?몯 asked Fred, looking 
around as he pulled up a chair and, when Harry 
shook his head, he said, 몮Good. We were watching 
their practice. They몭re going to be slaughtered. They몭re 
complete rubbish without us.몯 

몮Come on, Ginny몭s not bad,몯 said George fairly, sitting 
down next to Fred. 몮Actually, I dunno how she got so 
good, seeing how we never let her play with us...몯 

몮She몭s been breaking into your broom shed in the 
garden since the age of six and taking each of your 
brooms out in turn when you weren몭t looking,몯 said 
Hermione from behind her tottering pile of Ancient 
Rune books. 

몮Oh,몯 said George, looking mildly impressed. 몮Well 멪 
that몭d explain it.몯 



| 731Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Has Ron saved a goal yet?몯 asked Hermione, peering 
over the top of Magical Hieroglyphs and Logograms. 

몮Well, he can do it if he doesn몭t think anyone몭s 
watching him,몯 said Fred, rolling his eyes. 몮So all we 
have to do is ask the crowd to turn their backs and 
talk among themselves every time the Quaffle goes up 
his end on Saturday.몯 

He got up again and moved restlessly to the window, 
staring out across the dark grounds. 

몮You know, Quidditch was about the only thing in 
this place worth staying for.몯 

Hermione cast him a stern look. 

몮You몭ve got exams coming!몯 

몮Told you already, we몭re not fussed about N.E.W.T.s,몯 
said Fred. 몮The Snackboxes are ready to roll, we 
found out how to get rid of those boils, just a couple 
of drops of murtlap essence sorts them, Lee put us 
onto it...몯 

George yawned widely and looked out disconsolately 
at the cloudy night sky. 

몮I dunno if I even want to watch this match. If 
Zacharias Smith beats us I might have to kill myself.몯 

몮Kill him, more like,몯 said Fred firmly. 

몮That몭s the trouble with Quidditch,몯 said Hermione 
absentmindedly, once again bent over her Rune 
translation, 몮it creates all this bad feeling and tension 
between the Houses.몯 



| 732Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




She looked up to find her copy of Spellman몭s 
Syllabary and caught Fred, George, and Harry looking 
at her with expressions of mingled disgust and 
incredulity on their faces. 

몮Well, it does!몯 she said impatiently. 몮It몭s only a game, 
isn몭t it?몯 

몮Hermione,몯 said Harry, shaking his head, 몮you몭re 
good on feelings and stuff, but you just don몭t 
understand about Quidditch.몯 

몮Maybe not,몯 she said darkly, returning to her 
translation again, 몮but at least my happiness doesn몭t 
depend on Ron몭s goalkeeping ability.몯 

And though Harry would rather have jumped off the 
Astronomy Tower than admit it to her, by the time he 
had watched the game the following Saturday he 
would have given any number of Galleons not to care 
about Quidditch either. 

The very best thing you could say about the match 
was that it was short; the Gryffindor spectators had 
to endure only twenty-two minutes of agony. It was 
hard to say what the worst thing was: Harry thought 
it was a close-run contest between Ron몭s fourteenth 
failed save, Sloper missing the Bludger but hitting 
Angelina in the mouth with his bat, and Kirke 
shrieking and falling backward off his broom as 
Zacharias Smith zoomed at him carrying the Quaffle. 
The miracle was that Gryffindor only lost by ten 
points: Ginny managed to snatch the Snitch from 
right under Hufflepuff Seeker Summerby몭s nose, so 
that the final score was two hundred and forty versus 
two hundred and thirty. 



| 733Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Good catch,몯 Harry told Ginny back in the common 
room, where the atmosphere closely resembled that of 
a particularly dismal funeral. 

몮I was lucky,몯 she shrugged. 몮It wasn몭t a very fast 
Snitch and Summerby몭s got a cold, he sneezed and 
closed his eyes at exactly the wrong moment. Anyway, 
once you몭re back on the team 멪 몯 

몮Ginny, I몭ve got a lifelong ban.몯 

몮You몭re banned as long as Umbridge is in the school,몯 
Ginny corrected him. 몮There몭s a difference. Anyway, 
once you몭re back, I think I몭ll try out for Chaser. 
Angelina and Alicia are both leaving next year and I 
prefer goal-scoring to Seeking anyway.몯 

Harry looked over at Ron, who was hunched in a 
corner, staring at his knees, a bottle of butterbeer 
clutched in his hand. 

몮Angelina still won몭t let him resign,몯 Ginny said, as 
though reading Harry몭s mind. 몮She says she knows 
he몭s got it in him.몯 

Harry liked Angelina for the faith she was showing in 
Ron, but at the same time thought it would really be 
kinder to let him leave the team. Ron had left the 
pitch to another booming chorus of 몮Weasley Is Our 
King몯 sung with great gusto by the Slytherins, who 
were now favorites to win the Quidditch Cup. 

Fred and George wandered over. 

몮I haven몭t got the heart to take the mickey out of him, 
even,몯 said Fred, looking over at Ron몭s crumpled 
figure. 몮Mind you ... when he missed the fourteenth 



| 734Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He made wild motions with his arms as though doing 
an upright doggy-paddle. 



몮Well, I몭ll save it for parties, eh?몯 

Ron dragged himself up to bed shortly after this. Out 
of respect for his feelings, Harry waited a while before 
going up to the dormitory himself, so that Ron could 
pretend to be asleep if he wanted to. Sure enough, 
when Harry finally entered the room Ron was snoring 
a little too loudly to be entirely plausible. 

Harry got into bed, thinking about the match. It had 
been immensely frustrating watching from the 
sidelines. He was quite impressed by Ginny몭s 
performance but he felt that if he had been playing he 
could have caught the Snitch sooner... There had 
been a moment when it had been fluttering near 
Kirke몭s ankle; if she hadn몭t hesitated, she might have 
been able to scrape a win for Gryffindor. . . 

Umbridge had been sitting a few rows below Harry 
and Hermione. Once or twice she had turned squatly 
in her seat to look at him, her wide toad몭s mouth 
stretched in what he thought had been a gloating 
smile. The memory of it made him feel hot with anger 
as he lay there in the dark. After a few minutes, 
however, he remembered that he was supposed to be 
emptying his mind of all emotion before he slept, as 
Snape kept instructing him at the end of every 
Occlumency lesson. 

He tried for a moment or two, but the thought of 
Snape on top of memories of Umbridge merely 
increased his sense of grumbling resentment, and he 
found himself focusing instead on how much he 
loathed the pair of them. Slowly, Ron몭s snores died 
away, replaced by the sound of deep, slow breathing. 

It took Harry much longer to get to sleep; his body 
| 735Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




was tired, but it took his brain a long time to close 
down. 



He dreamed that Neville and Professor Sprout were 
waltzing around the Room of Requirement while 
Professor McGonagall played the bagpipes. He 
watched them happily for a while, then decided to go 
and find the other members of the D.A... 

But when he left the room he found himself facing, 
not the tapestry of Barnabas the Barmy, but a torch 
burning in its bracket on a stone wall. He turned his 
head slowly to the left. There, at the far end of the 
windowless passage, was a plain, black door. 

He walked toward it with a sense of mounting 
excitement. He had the strangest feeling that this 
time he was going to get lucky at last, and find the 
way to open it... He was feet from it and saw with a 
leap of excitement that there was a glowing strip of 
faint blue light down the right-hand side... The door 
was ajar... He stretched out his hand to push it wide 
and 멪 

Ron gave a loud, rasping, genuine snore, and Harry 
awoke abruptly with his right hand stretched in front 
of him in the darkness, to open a door that was 
hundreds of miles away. He let it fall with a feeling of 
mingled disappointment and guilt. He knew he 
should not have seen the door, but at the same time, 
felt so consumed with curiosity about what was 
behind it that he could not help feeling annoyed with 
Ron... If he could have saved his snore for just 
another minute . . . 



k k k 



| 736Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




They entered the Great Hall for breakfast at exactly 
the same moment as the post owls on Monday 
morning. Hermione was not the only person eagerly 
awaiting her Daily Prophet: Nearly everyone was eager 
for more news about the escaped Death Eaters, who, 
despite many reported sightings, had still not been 
caught. She gave the delivery owl a Knut and 
unfolded the newspaper eagerly while Harry helped 
himself to orange juice; as he had only received one 
note during the entire year he was sure, when the 
first owl landed with a thud in front of him, that it 
had made a mistake. 

몮Who 몭re you after?몯 he asked it, languidly removing 
his orange juice from underneath its beak and 
leaning forward to see the recipient몭s name and 
address: 

Harry Potter 

Great Hall 

Hogwarts School 

Frowning, he made to take the letter from the owl, but 
before he could do so, three, four, five more owls had 
fluttered down beside it and were jockeying for 
position, treading in the butter, knocking over the 
salt, and each attempting to give him their letters 
first. 

몮What몭s going on?몯 Ron asked in amazement, as the 
whole of Gryffindor table leaned forward to watch as 
another seven owls landed amongst the first ones, 
screeching, hooting, and flapping their wings. 

몮Harry!몯 said Hermione breathlessly, plunging her 
hands into the feathery mass and pulling out a 



| 737Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




screech owl bearing a long, cylindrical package. 몮I 
think I know what this means 멪 open this one first!몯 



Harry ripped off the brown packaging. Out rolled a 
tightly furled copy of March몭s edition of The Quibbler. 
He unrolled it to see his own face grinning sheepishly 
at him from the front cover. In large red letters across 
his picture were the words: 

HARRY POTTER SPEAKS OUT AT LAST: 

THE TRUTH ABOUT HE-WHO-MUST-NOT-BE- 
NAMED 

AND THE NIGHT I SAW HIM RETURN 

몮It몭s good, isn몭t it?몯 said Luna, who had drifted over to 
the Gryffindor table and now squeezed herself onto 
the bench between Fred and Ron. 몮It came out 
yesterday, I asked Dad to send you a free copy. I 
expect all these,몯 she waved a hand at the assembled 
owls still scrabbling around on the table in front of 
Harry, 몮are letters from readers.몯 

몮That몭s what I thought,몯 said Hermione eagerly, 
몮Harry, d몭you mind if we 멪 ?몯 

몮Help yourself,몯 said Harry, feeling slightly bemused. 

Ron and Hermione both started ripping open 
envelopes. 

몮This one몭s from a bloke who thinks you몭re off your 
rocker,몯 said Ron, glancing down his letter. 몮Ah well 



몮This woman recommends you try a good course of 
Shock Spells at St. Mungo몭s,몯 said Hermione, looking 
disappointed and crumpling up a second. 

| 738Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮This one looks okay, though,몯 said Harry slowly, 
scanning a long letter from a witch in Paisley. 몮Hey, 
she says she believes me!몯 

몮This one몭s in two minds,몯 said Fred, who had joined 
in the letter-opening with enthusiasm. 몮Says you 
don몭t come across as a mad person, but he really 
doesn몭t want to believe You-Know- Who몭s back so he 
doesn몭t know what to think now... Blimey, what a 
waste of parchment ...몯 

몮Here몭s another one you몭ve convinced, Harry!몯 said 
Hermione excitedly. 몮 몬Having read your side of the 
story I am forced to the conclusion that the Daily 
Prophet has treated you very unfairly. . . Little though I 
want to think that He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named has 
returned, I am forced to accept that you are telling 
the truth...몭 Oh this is wonderful!몯 

몮Another one who thinks you몭re barking,몯 said Ron, 
throwing a crumpled letter over his shoulder, 몮but 
this one says you몭ve got her converted, and she now 
thinks you몭re a real hero 멪 she몭s put in a photograph 
too 멪 wow 멪 몯 

몮What is going on here?몯 said a falsely sweet, girlish 
voice. 

Harry looked up with his hands full of envelopes. 
Professor Umbridge was standing behind Fred and 
Luna, her bulging toad몭s eyes scanning the mess of 
owls and letters on the table in front of Harry. Behind 
her he saw many of the students watching them 
avidly. 

몮Why have you got all these letters, Mr. Potter?몯 she 
asked slowly. 



| 739Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Is that a crime now?몯 said Fred loudly. 몮Getting 
mail?몯 

몮Be careful, Mr. Weasley, or I shall have to put you in 
detention,몯 said Umbridge. 몮Well, Mr. Potter?몯 

Harry hesitated, but he did not see how he could keep 
what he had done quiet; it was surely only a matter of 
time before a copy of The Quibbler came to Umbridge몭s 
attention. 

몮People have written to me because I gave an 
interview,몯 said Harry. 몮About what happened to me 
last June.몯 

For some reason he glanced up at the staff table as he 
said this. He had the strangest feeling that 
Dumbledore had been watching him a second before, 
but when he looked, Dumbledore seemed to be 
absorbed in conversation with Professor Flitwick. 

몮An interview?몯 repeated Umbridge, her voice thinner 
and higher than ever. 몮What do you mean?몯 

몮I mean a reporter asked me questions and I 
answered them,몯 said Harry. 몮Here 멪 몯 

And he threw the copy of The Quibbler at her. She 
caught it and stared down at the cover. Her pale, 
doughy face turned an ugly, patchy violet. 

몮When did you do this?몯 she asked, her voice 
trembling slightly. 

몮Last Hogsmeade weekend,몯 said Harry. 

She looked up at him, incandescent with rage, the 
magazine shaking in her stubby fingers. 



| 740Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮There will be no more Hogsmeade trips for you, Mr. 
Potter,몯 she whispered. 몮How you dare ... how you 
could ...몯 She took a deep breath. 몮I have tried again 
and again to teach you not to tell lies. The message, 
apparently, has still not sunk in. Fifty points from 
Gryffindor and another week몭s worth of detentions.몯 

She stalked away, clutching The Quibbler to her 
chest, the eyes of many students following her. 

By mid-morning enormous signs had been put up all 
over the school, not just on House notice boards, but 
in the corridors and classrooms too. 

멪 BY ORDER OF 멪 

THE HIGH INQUISITOR OF HOGWARTS 

Any student found in possession of the magazine The 
Quibbler will be expelled. 

The above is in accordance with 

Educational Decree Number Twenty-seven. 

Signed: 

Dolores Jane Umbridge 
HIGH INQUISITOR 

For some reason, every time Hermione caught sight of 
one of these signs she beamed with pleasure. 

몮What exactly are you so happy about?몯 Harry asked 
her. 



| 741Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Oh Harry, don몭t you see?몯 Hermione breathed. 몮If she 
could have done one thing to make absolutely sure 
that every single person in this school will read your 
interview, it was banning it!몯 

And it seemed that Hermione was quite right. By the 
end of that day, though Harry had not seen so much 
as a corner of The Quibbler anywhere in the school, 
the whole place seemed to be quoting the interview at 
each other; Harry heard them whispering about it as 
they queued up outside classes, discussing it over 
lunch and in the back of lessons, while Hermione 
even reported that every occupant of the cubicles in 
the girls몭 toilets had been talking about it when she 
nipped in there before Ancient Runes. 

몮And then they spotted me, and obviously they know I 
know you, so they were bombarding me with 
questions,몯 Hermione told Harry, her eyes shining, 
몮and Harry, I think they believe you, I really do, I 
think you몭ve finally got them convinced!몯 

Meanwhile Professor Umbridge was stalking the 
school, stopping students at random and demanding 
that they turn out their books and pockets. Harry 
knew she was looking for copies of The Quibbler, but 
the students were several steps ahead of her. The 
pages carrying Harry몭s interview had been bewitched 
to resemble extracts from textbooks if anyone but 
themselves read it, or else wiped magically blank until 
they wanted to peruse it again. Soon it seemed that 
every single person in the school had read it. 

The teachers were, of course, forbidden from 
mentioning the interview by Educational Decree 
Number Twenty-six, but they found ways to express 
their feelings about it all the same. Professor Sprout 
awarded Gryffindor twenty points when Harry passed 
her a watering can; a beaming Professor Flitwick 
| 742Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




pressed a box of squeaking sugar mice on him at the 
end of Charms, said 몮Shh\몯 and hurried away; and 
Professor Trelawney broke into hysterical sobs during 
Divination and announced to the startled class, and a 
very disapproving Umbridge, that Harry was not going 
to suffer an early death after all, but would live to a 
ripe old age, become Minister of Magic, and have 
twelve children. 

But what made Harry happiest was Cho catching up 
with him as he was hurrying along to Transfiguration 
the next day. Before he knew what had happened her 
hand was in his and she was breathing in his ear, 

몮I몭m really, really sorry. That interview was so brave 
...it made me cry.몯 

He was sorry to hear she had shed even more tears 
over it, but very glad they were on speaking terms 
again, and even more pleased when she gave him a 
swift kiss on the cheek and hurried off again. And 
unbelievably, no sooner had he arrived outside 
Transfiguration than something just as good 
happened: Seamus stepped out of the queue to face 
him. 

몮I just wanted to say,몯 he mumbled, squinting at 
Harry몭s left knee, 몮I believe you. And I몭ve sent a copy 
of that magazine to me mam.몯 

If anything more was needed to complete Harry몭s 
happiness, it was Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle몭s 
reactions. He saw them with their heads together 
later that afternoon in the library, together with a 
weedy-looking boy Hermione whispered was called 
Theodore Nott. They looked around at Harry as he 
browsed the shelves for the book he needed on Partial 
Vanishment, and Goyle cracked his knuckles 
threateningly and Malfoy whispered something 
undoubtedly malevolent to Crabbe. Harry knew 
| 743Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




perfectly well why they were acting like this: He had 
named all of their fathers as Death Eaters. 

몮And the best bit is,몯 whispered Hermione gleefully as 
they left the library, 몮they can몭t contradict you, 
because they can몭t admit they몭ve read the article!몯 

To cap it all, Luna told him over dinner that no copy 
of The Quibbler had ever sold out faster. 

몮Dad몭s reprinting!몯 she told Harry, her eyes popping 
excitedly. 몮He can몭t believe it, he says people seem 
even more interested in this than the Crumple- 
Horned Snorkacks!몯 

Harry was a hero in the Gryffindor common room that 
night; daringly, Fred and George had put an 
Enlargement Charm on the front cover of The 
Quibbler and hung it on the wall, so that Harry몭s giant 
head gazed down upon the proceedings, occasionally 
saying things like 몮The Ministry are morons몯 and 몮Eat 
dung, Umbridge몯 in a booming voice. Hermione did 
not find this very amusing; she said it interfered with 
her concentration, and ended up going to bed early 
out of irritation. Harry had to admit that the poster 
was not quite as funny after an hour or two, 
especially when the talking spell had started to wear 
off, so that it merely shouted disconnected words like 
몮Dung몯 and 몮Umbridge몯 at more and more frequent 
intervals in a progressively higher voice. In fact it 
started to make his head ache and his scar began 
prickling uncomfortably again. To disappointed 
moans from the many people who were sitting around 
him, asking him to relive his interview for the 
umpteenth time, he announced that he too needed an 
early night. 

The dormitory was empty when he reached it. He 
rested his forehead for a moment against the cool 

| 744Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




glass of the window beside his bed; it felt soothing 
against his scar. Then he undressed and got into bed, 
wishing his headache would go away. He also felt 
slightly sick. He rolled over onto his side, closed his 
eyes, and fell asleep almost at once... 

He was standing in a dark, curtained room lit by a 
single branch of candles. His hands were clenched on 
the back of a chair in front of him. They were long- 
fingered and white as though they had not seen 
sunlight for years and looked like large, pale spiders 
against the dark velvet of the chair. 

Beyond the chair, in a pool of light cast upon the floor 
by the candles, knelt a man in black robes. 

몮I have been badly advised, it seems,몯 said Harry, in a 
high, cold voice that pulsed with anger. 

몮Master, I crave your pardon...몯 croaked the man 
kneeling on the floor. The back of his head glimmered 
in the candlelight. He seemed to be trembling. 

몮I do not blame you, Rookwood,몯 said Harry in that 
cold, cruel voice. 

He relinquished his grip upon the chair and walked 
around it, closer to the man cowering upon the floor, 
until he stood directly over him in the darkness, 
looking down from a far greater height than usual. 

몮You are sure of your facts, Rookwood?몯 asked Harry. 

몮Yes, My Lord, yes ... I used to work in the 
department after 멪 after all...몯 

몮Avery told me Bode would be able to remove it.몯 



| 745Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Bode could never have taken it, Master. . . Bode would 
have known he could not... Undoubtedly that is why 
he fought so hard against Malfoy몭s Imperius Curse...몯 

몮Stand up, Rookwood,몯 whispered Harry. 

The kneeling man almost fell over in his haste to 
obey. His face was pockmarked; the scars were 
thrown into relief by the candlelight. He remained a 
little stooped when standing, as though halfway 
through a bow, and he darted terrified looks up at 
Harry몭s face. 

몮You have done well to tell me this,몯 said Harry. 몮Very 
well ... I have wasted months on fruitless schemes, it 
seems... But no matter ... We begin again, from now. 
You have Lord Voldemort몭s gratitude, Rookwood...몯 

몮My Lord ... yes, My Lord,몯 gasped Rookwood, his 
voice hoarse with relief. 

몮I shall need your help. I shall need all the 
information you can give me.몯 

몮Of course, My Lord, of course ... anything ...몯 

몮Very well ... you may go. Send Avery to me.몯 

Rookwood scurried backward, bowing, and 
disappeared through a door. 

Left alone in the dark room, Harry turned toward the 
wall. A cracked, age-spotted mirror hung on the wall 
in the shadows. Harry moved toward it. His reflection 
grew larger and clearer in the darkness... A face 
whiter than a skull . . . red eyes with slits for pupils . . . 

몮NOOOOOOOOO!몯 



| 746Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮What?몯 yelled a voice nearby. 



Harry flailed around madly, became entangled in the 
hangings, and fell out of his bed. For a few seconds 
he did not know where he was; he was convinced that 
he was about to see the white, skull-like face looming 
at him out of the dark again, then Ron몭s voice spoke 
very near to him. 

몮Will you stop acting like a maniac, and I can get you 
out of here!몯 

Ron wrenched the hangings apart, and Harry stared 
up at him in the moonlight, as he lay flat on his back, 
his scar searing with pain. Ron looked as though he 
had just been getting ready for bed; one arm was out 
of his robes. 

몮Has someone been attacked again?몯 asked Ron, 
pulling Harry roughly to his feet. 몮Is it Dad? Is it that 
snake?몯 

몮No 멪 everyone몭s fine 멪 몯 gasped Harry, whose 
forehead felt as though it was on fire again. 몮Well ... 
Avery isn몭t... He몭s in trouble... He gave him the wrong 
information... He몭s really angry...몯 

Harry groaned and sank, shaking, onto his bed, 
rubbing his scar. 

몮But Rookwood몭s going to help him now... He몭s on the 
right track again...몯 

몮What are you talking about?몯 said Ron, sounding 
scared. 몮D몭you mean ... did you just see You-Know- 
Who?몯 

몮I was You-Know-Who,몯 said Harry, and he stretched 
out his hands in the darkness and held them up to 

| 747Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




his face to check that they were no longer deathly 
white and long-fingered. 몮He was with Rookwood, he몭s 
one of the Death Eaters who escaped from Azkaban, 
remember? Rookwood몭s just told him Bode couldn몭t 
have done it...몯 

몮Done what?몯 

몮Remove something. . . He said Bode would have 
known he couldn몭t have done it... Bode was under the 
Imperius Curse... I think he said Malfoy몭s dad put it 
on him...몯 

몮Bode was bewitched to remove something?몯 Ron 
said. 몮But 멪 Harry, that몭s got to be 멪 몯 

몮The weapon,몯 Harry finished the sentence for him. 몮I 
know.몯 

The dormitory door opened; Dean and Seamus came 
in. Harry swung his legs back into bed. He did not 
want to look as though anything odd had just 
happened, seeing as Seamus had only just stopped 
thinking Harry was a nutter. 

몮Did you say,몯 murmured Ron, putting his head close 
to Harry몭s on the pretense of helping himself to water 
from the jug on his bedside table, 몮that you were You- 
Know-Who?몯 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry quietly. 

Ron took an unnecessarily large gulp of water. Harry 
saw it spill over his chin onto his chest. 

몮Harry,몯 he said, as Dean and Seamus clattered 
around noisily, pulling off their robes, and talking, 
몮you몭ve got to tell 멪 몯 



| 748Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I haven몭t got to tell anyone,몯 said Harry shortly. 몮I 
wouldn몭t have seen it at all if I could do Occlumency. 
I몭m supposed to have learned to shut this stuff out. 
That몭s what they want.몯 

By 몮they몯 he meant Dumbledore. He got back into bed 
and rolled over onto his side with his back to Ron and 
after a while he heard Ron몭s mattress creak as he lay 
back down too. His scar began to burn; he bit hard on 
his pillow to stop himself making a noise. Somewhere, 
he knew, Avery was being punished... 

Harry and Ron waited until break next morning to tell 
Hermione exactly what had happened. They wanted 
to be absolutely sure they could not be overheard. 
Standing in their usual corner of the cool and breezy 
courtyard, Harry told her every detail of the dream he 
could remember. When he had finished, she said 
nothing at all for a few moments, but stared with a 
kind of painful intensity at Fred and George, who 
were both headless and selling their magical hats 
from under their cloaks on the other side of the yard. 

몮So that몭s why they killed him,몯 she said quietly, 
withdrawing her gaze from Fred and George at last. 
몮When Bode tried to steal this weapon, something 
funny happened to him. I think there must be 
defensive spells on it, or around it, to stop people 
from touching it. That몭s why he was in St. Mungo몭s, 
his brain had gone all funny and he couldn몭t talk. But 
remember what the Healer told us? He was 
recovering. And they couldn몭t risk him getting better, 
could they? I mean, the shock of whatever happened 
when he touched that weapon probably made the 
Imperius Curse lift. Once he몭d got his voice back, he몭d 
explain what he몭d been doing, wouldn몭t he? They 
would have known he몭d been sent to steal the 
weapon. Of course, it would have been easy for 



| 749Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Lucius Malfoy to put the curse on him. Never out of 
the Ministry, is he?몯 

몮He was even hanging around that day I had my 
hearing,몯 said Harry. 몮In the 멪 hang on ...몯 he said 
slowly. 몮He was in the Department of Mysteries 
corridor that day! Your dad said he was probably 
trying to sneak down and find out what happened in 
my hearing, but what if 멪 몯 

몮Sturgis,몯 gasped Hermione, looking thunderstruck. 

몮Sorry?몯 said Ron, looking bewildered. 

몮Sturgis Podmore,몯 said Hermione, breathlessly. 
몮Arrested for trying to get through a door. Lucius 
Malfoy got him too. I bet he did it the day you saw 
him there, Harry. Sturgis had Moody몭s Invisibility 
Cloak, right? So what if he was standing guard by the 
door, invisible, and Malfoy heard him move, or 
guessed he was there, or just did the Imperius Curse 
on the off chance that a guard was there? So when 
Sturgis next had an opportunity 멪 probably when it 
was his turn on guard duty again 멪 he tried to get 
into the department to steal the weapon for Voldemort 
멪 Ron, be quiet 멪 but he got caught and sent to 
Azkaban...몯 

She gazed at Harry. 

몮And now Rookwood몭s told Voldemort how to get the 
weapon?몯 

몮I didn몭t hear all the conversation, but that몭s what it 
sounded like,몯 said Harry. 몮Rookwood used to work 
there... Maybe Voldemort몭ll send Rookwood to do it?몯 



| 750Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione nodded, apparently still lost in thought. 
Then, quite abruptly, she said, 몮But you shouldn몭t 
have seen this at all, Harry.몯 

몮What?몯 he said, taken aback. 

몮You몭re supposed to be learning how to close your 
mind to this sort of thing,몯 said Hermione, suddenly 
stern. 

몮I know I am,몯 said Harry. 몮But 멪 몯 

몮Well, I think we should just try and forget what you 
saw,몯 said Hermione firmly. 몮And you ought to put in 
a bit more effort on your Occlumency from now on.몯 

Harry was so angry with her that he did not talk to 
her for the rest of the day, which proved to be another 
bad one. When people were not discussing the 
escaped Death Eaters in the corridors today, they 
were laughing at Gryffindor몭s abysmal performance in 
their match against Hufflepuff; the Slytherins were 
singing 몮Weasley Is Our King몯 so loudly and 
frequently that by sundown Filch had banned it from 
the corridors out of sheer irritation. 

The week did not improve as it progressed: Harry 
received two more D몭s in Potions, was still on 
tenterhooks that Hagrid might get the sack, and 
could not stop himself from dwelling on the dream in 
which he had seen Voldemort, though he did not 
bring it up with Ron and Hermione again because he 
did not want another telling-off from Hermione. He 
wished very much that he could have talked to Sirius 
about it, but that was out of the question, so he tried 
to push the matter to the back of his mind. 

Unfortunately, the back of his mind was no longer the 
secure place it had once been. 

| 751Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Get up, Potter.몯 



A couple of weeks after his dream of Rookwood, Harry 
was to be found, yet again, kneeling on the floor of 
Snape몭s office, trying to clear his head. He had just 
been forced, yet again, to relive a stream of very early 
memories he had not even realized he still had, most 
of them concerning humiliations Dudley and his gang 
had inflicted upon him in primary school. 

몮That last memory,몯 said Snape. 몮What was it?몯 

몮I don몭t know,몯 said Harry, getting wearily to his feet. 
He was finding it increasingly difficult to disentangle 
separate memories from the rush of images and 
sound that Snape kept calling forth. 몮You mean the 
one where my cousin tried to make me stand in the 
toilet?몯 

몮No,몯 said Snape softly. 몮I mean the one concerning a 
man kneeling in the middle of a darkened room...몯 

몮It몭s ... nothing,몯 said Harry. 

Snape몭s dark eyes bored into Harry몭s. Remembering 
what Snape had said about eye contact being crucial 
to Legilimency, Harry blinked and looked away. 

몮How do that man and that room come to be inside 
your head, Potter?몯 said Snape. 

몮It 멪 몯 said Harry, looking everywhere but at Snape, 

몮it was 멪 just a dream I had.몯 

몮A dream,몯 repeated Snape. 

There was a pause during which Harry stared fixedly 
at a large dead frog suspended in a purple liquid in 
its jar. 

| 752Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮You do know why we are here, don몭t you, Potter?몯 
said Snape in a low, dangerous voice. 몮You do know 
why I am giving up my evenings to this tedious job?몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Harry stiffly. 

몮Remind me why we are here, Potter.몯 

몮So I can learn Occlumency,몯 said Harry, now glaring 
at a dead eel. 

몮Correct, Potter. And dim though you may be몯 멪 
Harry looked back at Snape, hating him 멪 몮I would 
have thought that after two months몭 worth of lessons 
you might have made some progress. How many other 
dreams about the Dark Lord have you had?몯 

몮Just that one,몯 lied Harry. 

몮Perhaps,몯 said Snape, his dark, cold eyes narrowing 
slightly, 몮perhaps you actually enjoy having these 
visions and dreams, Potter. Maybe they make you feel 
special 멪 important?몯 

몮No, they don몭t,몯 said Harry, his jaw set and his 
fingers clenched tightly around the handle of his 
wand. 

몮That is just as well, Potter,몯 said Snape coldly, 
몮because you are neither special nor important, and it 
is not up to you to find out what the Dark Lord is 
saying to his Death Eaters.몯 

몮No 멪 that몭s your job, isn몭t it?몯 Harry shot at him. 

He had not meant to say it; it had burst out of him in 
temper. For a long moment they stared at each other, 
Harry convinced he had gone too far. But there was a 



| 753Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




curious, almost satisfied expression on Snape몭s face 
when he answered. 



몮Yes, Potter,몯 he said, his eyes glinting. 몮That is my 
job. Now, if you are ready, we will start again...몯 

He raised his wand. 몮One 멪 two 멪 three 멪 
LegilimensV몭 

A hundred dementors were swooping toward Harry 
across the lake in the grounds... He screwed up his 
face in concentration... They were coming closer... He 
could see the dark holes beneath their hoods . . . yet 
he could also see Snape standing in front of him, his 
eyes fixed upon Harry몭s face, muttering under his 
breath... And somehow, Snape was growing clearer, 
and the dementors were growing fainter . . . 

Harry raised his own wand. 

몮Protegol몯 

Snape staggered; his wand flew upward, away from 
Harry 멪 and suddenly Harry몭s mind was teeming 
with memories that were not his 멪 a hook-nosed man 
was shouting at a cowering woman, while a small 
dark-haired boy cried in a corner. . . A greasy-haired 
teenager sat alone in a dark bedroom, pointing his 
wand at the ceiling, shooting down flies... A girl was 
laughing as a scrawny boy tried to mount a bucking 
broomstick 멪 

몮ENOUGH!몯 

Harry felt as though he had been pushed hard in the 
chest; he took several staggering steps backward, hit 
some of the shelves covering Snape몭s walls and heard 
something crack. Snape was shaking slightly, very 
white in the face. 

| 754Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The back of Harry몭s robes were damp. One of the jars 
behind him had broken when he fell against it; the 
pickled slimy thing within was swirling in its draining 
potion. 

몮Reparo\몯 hissed Snape, and the jar sealed itself once 
more. 몮Well, Potter ... that was certainly an 
improvement...몯 Panting slightly, Snape straightened 
the Pensieve in which he had again stored some of his 
thoughts before starting the lesson, almost as though 
checking that they were still there. 몮I don몭t remember 
telling you to use a Shield Charm . . . but there is no 
doubt that it was effective...몯 

Harry did not speak; he felt that to say anything 
might be dangerous. He was sure he had just broken 
into Snape몭s memories, that he had just seen scenes 
from Snape몭s childhood, and it was unnerving to 
think that the crying little boy who had watched his 
parents shouting was actually standing in front of 
him with such loathing in his eyes... 

몮Let몭s try again, shall we?몯 said Snape. 

Harry felt a thrill of dread: He was about to pay for 
what had just happened, he was sure of it. They 
moved back into position with the desk between 
them, Harry feeling he was going to find it much 
harder to empty his mind this time... 

몮On the count of three, then,몯 said Snape, raising his 
wand once more. 몮One 멪 two 멪 몯 

Harry did not have time to gather himself together 
and attempt to clear his mind, for Snape had already 
cried 몮 Legilimens\몯 

He was hurtling along the corridor toward the 
Department of Mysteries, past the blank stone walls, 

| 755Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




past the torches 멪 the plain black door was growing 
ever larger; he was moving so fast he was going to 
collide with it, he was feet from it and he could see 
that chink of faint blue light again 멪 

The door had flown open! He was through it at last, 
inside a black-walled, black-floored circular room lit 
with blue-flamed candles, and there were more doors 
all around him 멪 he needed to go on 멪 but which 
door ought he to take 멪 ? 

몮POTTER!몯 

Harry opened his eyes. He was flat on his back again 
with no memory of having gotten there; he was also 
panting as though he really had run the length of the 
Department of Mysteries corridor, really had sprinted 
through the black door and found the circular room... 

몮Explain yourself!몯 said Snape, who was standing over 
him, looking furious. 

몮I ... dunno what happened,몯 said Harry truthfully, 
standing up. There was a lump on the back of his 
head from where he had hit the ground and he felt 
feverish. 몮I몭ve never seen that before. I mean, I told 
you, I몭ve dreamed about the door ... but it몭s never 
opened before...몯 

몮You are not working hard enough!몯 

For some reason, Snape seemed even angrier than he 
had done two minutes before, when Harry had seen 
into his own memories. 

몮You are lazy and sloppy, Potter, it is small wonder 
that the Dark Lord 멪 몯 



| 756Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Can you tell me something, sir?몯 said Harry, firing up 
again. 몮Why do you call Voldemort the Dark Lord, I몭ve 
only ever heard Death Eaters call him that 멪 몯 

Snape opened his mouth in a snarl 멪 and a woman 
screamed from somewhere outside the room. 

Snape몭s head jerked upward; he was gazing at the 
ceiling. 

몮What the 멪 ?몯 he muttered. 

Harry could hear a muffled commotion coming from 
what he thought might be the entrance hall. Snape 
looked around at him, frowning. 

몮Did you see anything unusual on your way down 
here, Potter?몯 

Harry shook his head. Somewhere above them, the 
woman screamed again. Snape strode to his office 
door, his wand still held at the ready, and swept out 
of sight. Harry hesitated for a moment, then followed. 

The screams were indeed coming from the entrance 
hall; they grew louder as Harry ran toward the stone 
steps leading up from the dungeons. When he 
reached the top he found the entrance hall packed. 
Students had come flooding out of the Great Hall, 
where dinner was still in progress, to see what was 
going on. Others had crammed themselves onto the 
marble staircase. Harry pushed forward through a 
knot of tall Slytherins and saw that the onlookers had 
formed a great ring, some of them looking shocked, 
others even frightened. Professor McGonagall was 
directly opposite Harry on the other side of the hall; 
she looked as though what she was watching made 
her feel faintly sick. 



| 757Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Professor Trelawney was standing in the middle of the 
entrance hall with her wand in one hand and an 
empty sherry bottle in the other, looking utterly mad. 
Her hair was sticking up on end, her glasses were 
lopsided so that one eye was magnified more than the 
other; her innumerable shawls and scarves were 
trailing haphazardly from her shoulders, giving the 
impression that she was falling apart at the seams. 
Two large trunks lay on the floor beside her, one of 
them upside down; it looked very much as though it 
had been thrown down the stairs after her. Professor 
Trelawney was staring, apparently terrified, at 
something Harry could not see but that seemed to be 
standing at the foot of the stairs. 

몮No!몯 she shrieked. 몮NO! This cannot be happening... 

It cannot ... I refuse to accept it!몯 

몮You didn몭t realize this was coming?몯 said a high 
girlish voice, sounding callously amused, and Harry, 
moving slightly to his right, saw that Trelawney몭s 
terrifying vision was nothing other than Professor 
Umbridge. 몮Incapable though you are of predicting 
even tomorrow몭s weather, you must surely have 
realized that your pitiful performance during my 
inspections, and lack of any improvement, would 
make it inevitable you would be sacked?몯 

몮You c-can몭t!몯 howled Professor Trelawney, tears 
streaming down her face from behind her enormous 
lenses, 몮you c-can몭t sack me! I몭ve b-been here sixteen 
years! H-Hogwarts is m-my h-home!몯 

몮It was your home,몯 said Professor Umbridge, and 
Harry was revolted to see the enjoyment stretching 
her toadlike face as she watched Professor Trelawney 
sink, sobbing uncontrollably, onto one of her trunks, 
몮until an hour ago, when the Minister of Magic 
countersigned the order for your dismissal. Now 
| 758Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




kindly remove yourself from this hall. You are 
embarrassing us.몯 

But she stood and watched, with an expression of 
gloating enjoyment, as Professor Trelawney 
shuddered and moaned, rocking backward and 
forward on her trunk in paroxysms of grief. Harry 
heard a sob to his left and looked around. Lavender 
and Parvati were both crying silently, their arms 
around each other. Then he heard footsteps. 

Professor McGonagall had broken away from the 
spectators, marched straight up to Professor 
Trelawney and was patting her firmly on the back 
while withdrawing a large handkerchief from within 
her robes. 

몮There, there, Sibyll ... Calm down... Blow your nose 
on this... It몭s not as bad as you think, now... You are 
not going to have to leave Hogwarts...몯 

몮Oh really, Professor McGonagall?몯 said Umbridge in 
a deadly voice, taking a few steps forward. 몮And your 
authority for that statement is . . . ?몯 

몮That would be mine,몯 said a deep voice. 

The oak front doors had swung open. Students beside 
them scuttled out of the way as Dumbledore appeared 
in the entrance. What he had been doing out in the 
grounds Harry could not imagine, but there was 
something impressive about the sight of him framed 
in the doorway against an oddly misty night. Leaving 
the doors wide behind him, he strode forward through 
the circle of onlookers toward the place where 
Professor Trelawney sat, tearstained and trembling, 
upon her trunk, Professor McGonagall alongside her. 

몮Yours, Professor Dumbledore?몯 said Umbridge with a 
singularly unpleasant little laugh. 몮I몭m afraid you do 

| 759Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




not understand the position. I have here몯 멪 she 
pulled a parchment scroll from within her robes 멪 

몮an Order of Dismissal signed by myself and the 
Minister of Magic. Under the terms of Educational 
Decree Number Twenty-three, the High Inquisitor of 
Hogwarts has the power to inspect, place upon 
probation, and sack any teacher she 멪 that is to say, 

I 멪 feel is not performing up to the standard required 
by the Ministry of Magic. I have decided that Professor 
Trelawney is not up to scratch. I have dismissed her.몯 

To Harry몭s very great surprise, Dumbledore continued 
to smile. He looked down at Professor Trelawney, who 
was still sobbing and choking on her trunk, and said, 
몮You are quite right, of course, Professor Umbridge. 

As High Inquisitor you have every right to dismiss my 
teachers. You do not, however, have the authority to 
send them away from the castle. I am afraid,몯 he went 
on, with a courteous little bow, 몮that the power to do 
that still resides with the headmaster, and it is my 
wish that Professor Trelawney continue to live at 
Hogwarts.몯 

At this, Professor Trelawney gave a wild little laugh in 
which a hiccup was barely hidden. 

몮No 멪 no, I몭ll g-go, Dumbledore! I sh-shall 1-leave 
Hogwarts and s-seek my fortune elsewhere 멪 몯 

몮No,몯 said Dumbledore sharply. 몮It is my wish that 
you remain, Sibyll.몯 

He turned to Professor McGonagall. 

몮Might I ask you to escort Sibyll back upstairs, 
Professor McGonagall?몯 

몮Of course,몯 said McGonagall. 몮Up you get, Sibyll...몯 



| 760Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Professor Sprout came hurrying forward out of the 
crowd and grabbed Professor Trelawney몭s other arm. 
Together they guided her past Umbridge and up the 
marble stairs. Professor Flitwick went scurrying after 
them, his wand held out before him; he squeaked, 
몮Locomotor trunksl몯 and Professor Trelawney몭s luggage 
rose into the air and proceeded up the staircase after 
her, Professor Flitwick bringing up the rear. 

Professor Umbridge was standing stock-still, staring 
at Dumbledore, who continued to smile benignly. 

몮And what,몯 she said in a whisper that nevertheless 
carried all around the entrance hall, 몮are you going to 
do with her once I appoint a new Divination teacher 
who needs her lodgings?몯 

몮Oh, that won몭t be a problem,몯 said Dumbledore 
pleasantly. 몮You see, I have already found us a new 
Divination teacher, and he will prefer lodgings on the 
ground floor.몯 

몮You몭ve found 멪 ?몯 said Umbridge shrilly. 몮You몭ve 
found? Might I remind you, Dumbledore, that under 
Educational Decree Twenty-two 멪 몯 

몮 멪 the Ministry has the right to appoint a suitable 
candidate if 멪 and only if 멪 the headmaster is 
unable to find one,몯 said Dumbledore. 몮And I am 
happy to say that on this occasion I have succeeded. 
May I introduce you?몯 

He turned to face the open front doors, through which 
night mist was now drifting. Harry heard hooves. 
There was a shocked murmur around the hall and 
those nearest the doors hastily moved even farther 
backward, some of them tripping over in their haste 
to clear a path for the newcomer. 



| 761Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Through the mist came a face Harry had seen once 
before on a dark, dangerous night in the Forbidden 
Forest: white-blond hair and astonishingly blue eyes, 
the head and torso of a man joined to the palomino 
body of a horse. 

몮This is Firenze,몯 said Dumbledore happily to a 
thunderstruck Umbridge. 몮I think you 11 find him 
suitable.몯 



| 762Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 





THE CENTAUR AND THE SNEAK 

몮I몭ll bet you wish you hadn몭t given up Divination now, 
don몭t you, Hermione?몯 asked Parvati, smirking. 

It was breakfast time a few days after the sacking of 
Professor Trelawney, and Parvati was curling her 
eyelashes around her wand and examining the effect 
in the back of her spoon. They were to have their first 
lesson with Firenze that morning. 

몮Not really,몯 said Hermione indifferently, who was 
reading the Daily Prophet 몮I몭ve never really liked 
horses.몯 

She turned a page of the newspaper, scanning its 
columns. 

몮He몭s not a horse, he몭s a centaur!몯 said Lavender, 
sounding shocked. 

몮A gorgeous centaur ...몯 sighed Parvati. 



| 763Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



몮Either way, he몭s still got four legs,몯 said Hermione 
coolly. 몮Anyway, I thought you two were all upset that 
Trelawney had gone?몯 

몮We are!몯 Lavender assured her. 몮We went up to her 
office to see her, we took her some daffodils 멪 not the 
honking ones that Sprout몭s got, nice ones...몯 

몮How is she?몯 asked Harry. 

몮Not very good, poor thing,몯 said Lavender 
sympathetically. 몮She was crying and saying she몭d 
rather leave the castle forever than stay here if 
Umbridge is still here, and I don몭t blame her. 

Umbridge was horrible to her, wasn몭t she?몯 

몮I몭ve got a feeling Umbridge has only just started 
being horrible,몯 said Hermione darkly. 

몮Impossible,몯 said Ron, who was tucking into a large 
plate of eggs and bacon. 몮She can몭t get any worse 
than she몭s been already.몯 

몮You mark my words, she몭s going to want revenge on 
Dumbledore for appointing a new teacher without 
consulting her,몯 said Hermione, closing the 
newspaper. 몮Especially another part-human. You saw 
the look on her face when she saw Firenze...몯 

After breakfast Hermione departed for her Arithmancy 
class and Harry and Ron followed Parvati and 
Lavender into the entrance hall, heading for 
Divination. 

몮Aren몭t we going up to North Tower?몯 asked Ron, 
looking puzzled, as Parvati bypassed the marble 
staircase. 

Parvati looked scornfully over her shoulder at him. 

| 764Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮How d몭you expect Firenze to climb that ladder? We몭re 
in classroom eleven now, it was on the notice board 
yesterday.몯 

Classroom eleven was situated in the ground-floor 
corridor leading off the entrance hall on the opposite 
side to the Great Hall. Harry knew it to be one of 
those classrooms that were never used regularly, and 
that it therefore had the slightly neglected feeling of a 
cupboard or storeroom. When he entered it right 
behind Ron, and found himself right in the middle of 
a forest clearing, he was therefore momentarily 
stunned. 

몮What the 멪 ?몯 

The classroom floor had become springily mossy and 
trees were growing out of it; their leafy branches 
fanned across the ceiling and windows, so that the 
room was full of slanting shafts of soft, dappled, green 
light. The students who had already arrived were 
sitting on the earthy floor with their backs resting 
against tree trunks or boulders, arms wrapped 
around their knees or folded tightly across their 
chests, looking rather nervous. In the middle of the 
room, where there were no trees, stood Firenze. 

몮Harry Potter,몯 he said, holding out a hand when 
Harry entered. 

몮Er 멪 hi,몯 said Harry, shaking hands with the 
centaur, who surveyed him unblinkingly through 
those astonishingly blue eyes but did not smile. 몮Er 멪 
good to see you ...몯 

몮And you,몯 said the centaur, inclining his white-blond 
head. 몮It was foretold that we would meet again.몯 



| 765Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry noticed that there was the shadow of a hoof- 
shaped bruise on Firenze몭s chest. As he turned to join 
the rest of the class upon the floor, he saw that they 
were all looking at him with awe, apparently deeply 
impressed that he was on speaking terms with 
Firenze, whom they seemed to find intimidating. 

When the door was closed and the last student had 
sat down upon a tree stump beside the wastepaper 
basket, Firenze gestured around the room. 

몮Professor Dumbledore has kindly arranged this 
classroom for us,몯 said Firenze, when everyone had 
settled down, 몮in imitation of my natural habitat. I 
would have preferred to teach you in the Forbidden 
Forest, which was 멪 until Monday 멪 my home ... but 
this is not possible.몯 

몮Please 멪 er 멪 sir 멪 몯 said Parvati breathlessly, 
raising her hand, 몮why not? We몭ve been in there with 
Hagrid, we몭re not frightened!몯 

몮It is not a question of your bravery,몯 said Firenze, 
몮but of my position. I can no longer return to the 
forest. My herd has banished me.몯 

몮Herd?몯 said Lavender in a confused voice, and Harry 
knew she was thinking of cows. 몮What 멪 oh!몯 
Comprehension dawned on her face. 몮There are more 
of you?몯 she said, stunned. 

몮Did Hagrid breed you, like the thestrals?몯 asked 
Dean eagerly. 

Firenze turned his head very slowly to face Dean, who 
seemed to realize at once that he had said something 
very offensive. 



| 766Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I didn몭t 멪 I meant 멪 sorry,몯 he finished in a hushed 
voice. 

몮Centaurs are not the servants or playthings of 
humans,몯 said Firenze quietly. There was a pause, 
then Parvati raised her hand again. 

몮Please, sir ... why have the other centaurs banished 
you?몯 

몮Because I have agreed to work for Professor 
Dumbledore,몯 said Firenze. 몮They see this as a 
betrayal of our kind.몯 

Harry remembered how, nearly four years ago, the 
centaur Bane had shouted at Firenze for allowing 
Harry to ride to safety upon his back, calling him a 
몮common mule.몯 He wondered whether it had been 
Bane who had kicked Firenze in the chest. 

몮Let us begin,몯 said Firenze. He swished his long 
palomino tail, raised his hand toward the leafy 
canopy overhead then lowered it slowly, and as he did 
so, the light in the room dimmed, so that they now 
seemed to be sitting in a forest clearing by twilight, 
and stars emerged upon the ceiling. There were oohs 
and gasps, and Ron said audibly, 몮Blimey!몯 

몮Lie back upon the floor,몯 said Firenze in his calm 
voice, 몮and observe the heavens. Here is written, for 
those who can see, the fortune of our races.몯 

Harry stretched out on his back and gazed upward at 
the ceiling. A twinkling red star winked at him from 
overhead. 

몮I know that you have learned the names of the 
planets and their moons in Astronomy,몯 said Firenze몭s 
calm voice, 몮and that you have mapped the stars몭 

| 767Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




progress through the heavens. Centaurs have 
unraveled the mysteries of these movements over 
centuries. Our findings teach us that the future may 
be glimpsed in the sky above us...몯 

몮Professor Trelawney did Astrology with us!몯 said 
Parvati excitedly, raising her hand in front of her so 
that it stuck up in the air as she lay on her back. 
몮Mars causes accidents and burns and things like 
that, and when it makes an angle to Saturn, like now몯 
멪 she drew a right angle in the air above her 멪 몮that 
means that people need to be extra careful when 
handling hot things 멪 몯 

몮That,몯 said Firenze calmly, 몮is human nonsense.몯 

Parvati몭s hand fell limply to her side. 

몮Trivial hurts, tiny human accidents,몯 said Firenze, as 
his hooves thudded over the mossy floor. 몮These are 
of no more significance than the scurryings of ants to 
the wide universe, and are unaffected by planetary 
movements.몯 

몮Professor Trelawney 멪 몯 began Parvati, in a hurt and 
indignant voice. 

몮 멪 is a human,몯 said Firenze simply. 몮And is 
therefore blinkered and fettered by the limitations of 
your kind.몯 

Harry turned his head very slightly to look at Parvati. 
She looked very offended, as did several of the people 
surrounding her. 

몮Sibyll Trelawney may have Seen, I do not know,몯 
continued Firenze, and Harry heard the swishing of 
his tail again as he walked up and down before them, 
몮but she wastes her time, in the main, on the self- 

P a g e | 768Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




flattering nonsense humans call fortune-telling. I, 
however, am here to explain the wisdom of centaurs, 
which is impersonal and impartial. We watch the 
skies for the great tides of evil or change that are 
sometimes marked there. It may take ten years to be 
sure of what we are seeing.몯 

Firenze pointed to the red star directly above Harry. 

몮In the past decade, the indications have been that 
Wizard-kind is living through nothing more than a 
brief calm between two wars. Mars, bringer of battle, 
shines brightly above us, suggesting that the fight 
must break out again soon. How soon, centaurs may 
attempt to divine by the burning of certain herbs and 
leaves, by the observation of fume and flame...몯 

It was the most unusual lesson Harry had ever 
attended. They did indeed burn sage and mallowsweet 
there on the classroom floor, and Firenze told them to 
look for certain shapes and symbols in the pungent 
fumes, but he seemed perfectly unconcerned that not 
one of them could see any of the signs he described, 
telling them that humans were hardly ever good at 
this, that it took centaurs years and years to become 
competent, and finished by telling them that it was 
foolish to put too much faith in such things anyway, 
because even centaurs sometimes read them wrongly. 
He was nothing like any human teacher Harry had 
ever had. His priority did not seem to be to teach 
them what he knew, but rather to impress upon them 
that nothing, not even centaurs몭 knowledge, was 
foolproof. 

몮He몭s not very definite on anything, is he?몯 said Ron 
in a low voice, as they put out their mallowsweet fire. 
몮I mean, I could do with a few more details about this 
war we몭re about to have, couldn몭t you?몯 



| 769Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The bell rang right outside the classroom door and 
everyone jumped; Harry had completely forgotten that 
they were still inside the castle, quite convinced that 
he was really in the forest. The class filed out, looking 
slightly perplexed; Harry and Ron were on the point of 
following them when Firenze called, 몮Harry Potter, a 
word, please.몯 

Harry turned. The centaur advanced a little toward 
him. Ron hesitated. 

몮You may stay,몯 Firenze told him. 몮But close the door, 
please.몯 

Ron hastened to obey. 

몮Harry Potter, you are a friend of Hagrid몭s, are you 
not?몯 said the centaur. 

몮Yes,몯 said Harry. 

몮Then give him a warning from me. His attempt is not 
working. He would do better to abandon it.몯 

몮His attempt is not working?몯 Harry repeated blankly. 

몮And he would do better to abandon it,몯 said Firenze, 
nodding. 몮I would warn Hagrid myself, but I am 
banished 멪 it would be unwise for me to go too near 
the forest now 멪 Hagrid has troubles enough, 
without a centaurs몭 battle.몯 

몮But 멪 what몭s Hagrid attempting to do?몯 said Harry 
nervously. 

Firenze looked at Harry impassively. 

몮Hagrid has recently rendered me a great service,몯 
said Firenze, 몮and he has long since earned my 

| 770Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




respect for the care he shows all living creatures. I 
shall not betray his secret. But he must be brought to 
his senses. The attempt is not working. Tell him, 
Harry Potter. Good day to you.몯 



The happiness Harry had felt in the aftermath of The 
Quibbler interview had long since evaporated. As a 
dull March blurred into a squally April, his life 
seemed to have become one long series of worries and 
problems again. 

Umbridge had continued attending all Care of Magical 
Creatures lessons, so it had been very difficult to 
deliver Firenze몭s warning to Hagrid. At last Harry had 
managed it by pretending he had lost his copy of 
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them and 
doubling back after class one day. When he passed on 
Firenze몭s message, Hagrid gazed at him for a moment 
through his puffy, blackened eyes, apparently taken 
aback. Then he seemed to pull himself together. 

몮Nice bloke, Firenze,몯 he said gruffly, 몮but he don몭 
know what he몭s talkin몭 abou몭 on this. The attemp몭s 
cornin몭 on fine.몯 

몮Hagrid, what몭re you up to?몯 asked Harry seriously. 
몮Because you몭ve got to be careful, Umbridge has 
already sacked Trelawney and if you ask me, she몭s on 
a roll. If you몭re doing anything you shouldn몭t be 멪 몯 

몮There몭s things more importan몭 than keepin몭 a job,몯 
said Hagrid, though his hands shook slightly as he 
said this and a basin full of knarl droppings crashed 
to the floor. 몮Don몭 worry abou몭 me, Harry, jus몭 get 
along now, there몭s a good lad...몯 



| 771Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry had no choice but to leave Hagrid mopping up 
the dung all over his floor, but he felt thoroughly 
dispirited as he trudged back up to the castle. 

Meanwhile, as the teachers and Hermione persisted 
in reminding them, the O.W.L.s were drawing ever 
nearer. All the fifth years were suffering from stress to 
some degree, but Hannah Abbott became the first to 
receive a Calming Draught from Madam Pomfrey after 
she burst into tears during Herbology and sobbed 
that she was too stupid to take exams and wanted to 
leave school now. 

If it had not been for the D.A. lessons, Harry thought 
he would have been extremely unhappy. He 
sometimes felt that he was living for the hours he 
spent in the Room of Requirement, working hard but 
thoroughly enjoying himself at the same time, 
swelling with pride as he looked around at his fellow 
D.A. members and saw how far they had come. 

Indeed, Harry sometimes wondered how Umbridge 
was going to react when all the members of the D.A. 
received 몮Outstanding몯 in their Defense Against the 
Dark Arts O.W.L.s. 

They had finally started work on Patronuses, which 
everybody had been very keen to practice, though as 
Harry kept reminding them, producing a Patronus in 
the middle of a brightly lit classroom when they were 
not under threat was very different to producing it 
when confronted by something like a dementor. 

몮Oh, don몭t be such a killjoy,몯 said Cho brightly, 
watching her silvery swan-shaped Patronus soar 
around the Room of Requirement during their last 
lesson before Easter. 몮They몭re so pretty!몯 

몮They몭re not supposed to be pretty, they몭re supposed 
to protect you,몯 said Harry patiently. 몮What we really 

| 772Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




need is a boggart or something; that몭s how I learned, I 
had to conjure a Patronus while the boggart was 
pretending to be a dementor 멪 몯 

몮But that would be really scary!몯 said Lavender, who 
was shooting puffs of silver vapor out of the end of 
her wand. 몮And I still 멪 can몭t 멪 do it!몯 she added 
angrily. 

Neville was having trouble too. His face was screwed 
up in concentration, but only feeble wisps of silver 
smoke issued from his wand tip. 

몮You몭ve got to think of something happy,몯 Harry 
reminded him. 

몮I몭m trying,몯 said Neville miserably, who was trying so 
hard his round face was actually shining with sweat. 

몮Harry, I think I몭m doing it!몯 yelled Seamus, who had 
been brought along to his first ever D.A. meeting by 
Dean. 몮Look 멪 ah 멪 it몭s gone... But it was definitely 
something hairy, Harry!몯 

Hermione몭s Patronus, a shining silver otter, was 
gamboling around her. 

몮They are sort of nice, aren몭t they?몯 she said, looking 
at it fondly. 

The door of the Room of Requirement opened and 
then closed again; Harry looked around to see who 
had entered, but there did not seem to be anybody 
there. It was a few moments before he realized that 
the people close to the door had fallen silent. Next 
thing he knew, something was tugging at his robes 
somewhere near the knee. He looked down and saw, 
to his very great astonishment, Dobby the house-elf 
peering up at him from beneath his usual eight hats. 
| 773Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Hi, Dobby!몯 he said. 몮What are you 멪 what몭s wrong?몯 

For the elf몭s eyes were wide with terror and he was 
shaking. The members of the D.A. closest to Harry 
had fallen silent now: Everybody in the room was 
watching Dobby. The few Patronuses people had 
managed to conjure faded away into silver mist, 
leaving the room looking much darker than before. 

몮Harry Potter, sir ...몯 squeaked the elf, trembling from 
head to foot, 몮Harry Potter, sir ... Dobby has come to 
warn you . . . but the house-elves have been warned 
not to tell ...몯 

He ran headfirst at the wall: Harry, who had some 
experience of Dobby몭s habits of self-punishment, 
made to seize him, but Dobby merely bounced off the 
stone, cushioned by his eight hats. Hermione and a 
few of the other girls let out squeaks of fear and 
sympathy. 

몮What몭s happened, Dobby?몯 Harry asked, grabbing 
the elf몭s tiny arm and holding him away from 
anything with which he might seek to hurt himself. 

몮Harry Potter ... she ... she ...몯 

Dobby hit himself hard on the nose with his free fist: 
Harry seized that too. 

몮Who몭s 몬she,몭 Dobby?몯 

But he thought he knew 멪 surely only one 몮she몯 
could induce such fear in Dobby? The elf looked up at 
him, slightly cross-eyed, and mouthed wordlessly. 

몮Umbridge?몯 asked Harry, horrified. 



| 774Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Dobby nodded, then tried to bang his head off Harry몭s 
knees; Harry held him at bay. 



몮What about her? Dobby 멪 she hasn몭t found out 
about this 멪 about us 멪 about the D.A.?몯 

He read the answer in the elf몭s stricken face. His 
hands held fast by Harry, the elf tried to kick himself 
and fell to the floor. 

몮Is she coming?몯 Harry asked quietly. 

Dobby let out a howl, and began beating his bare feet 
hard on the floor. 몮Yes, Harry Potter, yes!몯 

Harry straightened up and looked around at the 
motionless, terrified people gazing at the thrashing 
elf. 

몮WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR?몯 Harry bellowed. 
몮RUN!몯 

They all pelted toward the exit at once, forming a 
scrum at the door, then people burst through; Harry 
could hear them sprinting along the corridors and 
hoped they had the sense not to try and make it all 
the way to their dormitories. It was only ten to nine, if 
they just took refuge in the library or the Owlery, 
which were both nearer 멪 

몮Harry, come on!몯 shrieked Hermione from the center 
of the knot of people now fighting to get out. 

He scooped up Dobby, who was still attempting to do 
himself serious injury, and ran with the elf in his 
arms to join the back of the queue. 

몮Dobby 멪 this is an order 멪 get back down to the 
kitchen with the other elves, and if she asks you 

| 775Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




whether you warned me, lie and say no!몯 said Harry. 
몮And I forbid you to hurt yourself!몯 he added, 
dropping the elf as he made it over the threshold at 
last and slamming the door behind him. 

몮Thank you, Harry Potter!몯 squeaked Dobby, and he 
streaked off. Harry glanced left and right, the others 
were all moving so fast that he caught only glimpses 
of flying heels at either end of the corridor before they 
vanished. He started to run right; there was a boys몭 
bathroom up ahead, he could pretend he몭d been in 
there all the time if he could just reach it 멪 

몮AAARGH!몯 

Something caught him around the ankles and he fell 
spectacularly, skidding along on his front for six feet 
before coming to a halt. Someone behind him was 
laughing. He rolled over onto his back and saw Malfoy 
concealed in a niche beneath an ugly dragon-shaped 
vase. 

몮Trip Jinx, Potter!몯 he said. 몮Hey, Professor 멪 
PROFESSOR! I몭ve got one!몯 

Umbridge came bustling around the far corner, 
breathless but wearing a delighted smile. 

몮It몭s him!몯 she said jubilantly at the sight of Harry on 
the floor. 몮Excellent, Draco, excellent, oh, very good 멪 
fifty points to Slytherin! I몭ll take him from here... 

Stand up, Potter!몯 

Harry got to his feet, glaring at the pair of them. He 
had never seen Umbridge looking so happy. She 
seized his arm in a vicelike grip and turned, beaming 
broadly, to Malfoy. 몮You hop along and see if you can 
round up anymore of them, Draco,몯 she said. 몮Tell the 
others to look in the library 멪 anybody out of breath 
| 776Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




멪 check the bathrooms, Miss Parkinson can do the 
girls몭 ones 멪 off you go 멪 and you,몯 she added in her 
softest, most dangerous voice, as Malfoy walked away. 
몮You can come with me to the headmaster몭s office, 
Potter.몯 

They were at the stone gargoyle within minutes. Harry 
wondered how many of the others had been caught. 

He thought of Ron 멪 Mrs. Weasley would kill him 멪 
and of how Hermione would feel if she was expelled 
before she could take her O.W.L.s. And it had been 
Seamus몭s very first meeting ... and Neville had been 
getting so good... 

몮Fizzing Whizbee,몯 sang Umbridge, and the stone 
gargoyle jumped aside, the wall behind split open, 
and they ascended the moving stone staircase. They 
reached the polished door with the griffin knocker, 
but Umbridge did not bother to knock, she strode 
straight inside, still holding tight to Harry. 

The office was full of people. Dumbledore was sitting 
behind his desk, his expression serene, the tips of his 
long fingers together. Professor McGonagall stood 
rigidly beside him, her face extremely tense. Cornelius 
Fudge, Minister of Magic, was rocking backward and 
forward on his toes beside the fire, apparently 
immensely pleased with the situation. Kingsley 
Shacklebolt and a tough-looking wizard Harry did not 
recognize with very short, wiry hair were positioned 
on either side of the door like guards, and the 
freckled, bespectacled form of Percy Weasley hovered 
excitedly beside the wall, a quill and a heavy scroll of 
parchment in his hands, apparently poised to take 
notes. 

The portraits of old headmasters and mistresses were 
not shamming sleep tonight. All of them were 
watching what was happening below, alert and 

| 777Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




serious. As Harry entered, a few flitted into 
neighboring frames and whispered urgently into their 
neighbors몭 ears. 

Harry pulled himself free of Umbridge몭s grasp as the 
door swung shut behind them. Cornelius Fudge was 
glaring at him with a kind of vicious satisfaction upon 
his face. 

몮Well,몯 he said. 몮Well, well, well ...몯 

Harry replied with the dirtiest look he could muster. 
His heart drummed madly inside him, but his brain 
was oddly cool and clear. 

몮He was heading back to Gryffindor Tower,몯 said 
Umbridge. There was an indecent excitement in her 
voice, the same callous pleasure Harry had heard as 
she watched Professor Trelawney dissolving with 
misery in the entrance hall. 몮The Malfoy boy cornered 
him.몯 

몮Did he, did he?몯 said Fudge appreciatively. 몮I must 
remember to tell Lucius. Well, Potter ... I expect you 
know why you are here?몯 

Harry fully intended to respond with a defiant 몮yes몯: 
His mouth had opened and the word was half formed 
when he caught sight of Dumbledore몭s face. 
Dumbledore was not looking directly at Harry; his 
eyes were fixed upon a point just over his shoulder, 
but as Harry stared at him, he shook his head a 
fraction of an inch to each side. 

Harry changed direction mid- word. 

몮Yeh 멪 no.몯 

몮I beg your pardon?몯 said Fudge. 

| 778Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮No,몯 said Harry, firmly. 

몮You don몭t know why you are here?몯 

몮No, I don몭t,몯 said Harry. 

Fudge looked incredulously from Harry to Professor 
Umbridge; Harry took advantage of his momentary 
inattention to steal another quick look at 
Dumbledore, who gave the carpet the tiniest of nods 
and the shadow of a wink. 

몮So you have no idea,몯 said Fudge in a voice positively 
sagging with sarcasm, 몮why Professor Umbridge has 
brought you to this office? You are not aware that you 
have broken any school rules?몯 

몮School rules?몯 said Harry. 몮No.몯 

몮Or Ministry decrees?몯 amended Fudge angrily. 

몮Not that I몭m aware of,몯 said Harry blandly. 

His heart was still hammering very fast. It was almost 
worth telling these lies to watch Fudge몭s blood 
pressure rising, but he could not see how on earth he 
would get away with them. If somebody had tipped off 
Umbridge about the D.A. then he, the leader, might 
as well be packing his trunk right now. 

몮So it몭s news to you, is it,몯 said Fudge, his voice now 
thick with anger, 몮that an illegal student organization 
has been discovered within this school?몯 

몮Yes, it is,몯 said Harry, hoisting an unconvincing look 
of innocent surprise onto his face. 



| 779Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I think, Minister,몯 said Umbridge silkily from beside 
him, 몮we might make better progress if I fetch our 
informant.몯 

몮Yes, yes, do,몯 said Fudge, nodding, and he glanced 
maliciously at Dumbledore as Umbridge left the room. 
몮There몭s nothing like a good witness, is there, 
Dumbledore?몯 

몮Nothing at all, Cornelius,몯 said Dumbledore gravely, 
inclining his head. 

There was a wait of several minutes, in which nobody 
looked at each other, then Harry heard the door open 
behind him. Umbridge moved past him into the room, 
gripping by the shoulder Cho몭s curly-haired friend 
Marietta, who was hiding her face in her hands. 

몮Don몭t be scared, dear, don몭t be frightened,몯 said 
Professor Umbridge softly, patting her on the back, 
몮it몭s quite all right, now. You have done the right 
thing. The minister is very pleased with you. He몭ll be 
telling your mother what a good girl you몭ve been. 
Marietta몭s mother, Minister,몯 she added, looking up at 
Fudge, 몮is Madam Edgecombe from the Department of 
Magical Transportation. Floo Network office 멪 she몭s 
been helping us police the Hogwarts fires, you know.몯 

몮Jolly good, jolly good!몯 said Fudge heartily. 몮Like 
mother, like daughter, eh? Well, come on, now, dear, 
look up, don몭t be shy, let몭s hear what you몭ve got to 멪 
galloping gargoyles!몯 

As Marietta raised her head, Fudge leapt backward in 
shock, nearly landing himself in the fire. He cursed 
and stamped on the hem of his cloak, which had 
started to smoke, and Marietta gave a wail and pulled 
the neck of her robes right up to her eyes, but not 
before the whole room had seen that her face was 
| 780Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




horribly disfigured by a series of close- set purple 
pustules that had spread across her nose and cheeks 
to form the word 몮SNEAK.몯 



몮Never mind the spots now, dear,몯 said Umbridge 
impatiently, 몮just take your robes away from your 
mouth and tell the Minister 멪 몯 

But Marietta gave another muffled wail and shook her 
head frantically. 

몮Oh, very well, you silly girl, I몭ll tell him,몯 snapped 
Umbridge. She hitched her sickly smile back onto her 
face and said, 몮Well, Minister, Miss Edgecombe here 
came to my office shortly after dinner this evening 
and told me she had something she wanted to tell me. 
She said that if I proceeded to a secret room on the 
seventh floor, sometimes known as the Room of 
Requirement, I would find out something to my 
advantage. I questioned her a little further and she 
admitted that there was to be some kind of meeting 
there. Unfortunately at that point this hex,몯 she 
waved impatiently at Marietta몭s concealed face, 몮came 
into operation and upon catching sight of her face in 
my mirror the girl became too distressed to tell me 
any more.몯 

몮Well, now,몯 said Fudge, fixing Marietta with what he 
evidently imagined was a kind and fatherly look. 몮It is 
very brave of you, my dear, coming to tell Professor 
Umbridge, you did exactly the right thing. Now, will 
you tell me what happened at this meeting? What was 
its purpose? Who was there?몯 

But Marietta would not speak. She merely shook her 
head again, her eyes wide and fearful. 



| 781Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Haven몭t we got a counterjinx for this?몯 Fudge asked 
Umbridge impatiently, gesturing at Marietta몭s face. 

몮So she can speak freely?몯 

몮I have not yet managed to find one,몯 Umbridge 
admitted grudgingly, and Harry felt a surge of pride in 
Hermione몭s jinxing ability. 몮But it doesn몭t matter if 
she won몭t speak, I can take up the story from here. 

몮You will remember, Minister, that I sent you a report 
back in October that Potter had met a number of 
fellow students in the Hog몭s Head in Hogsmeade 멪 몯 

몮And what is your evidence for that?몯 cut in Professor 
McGonagall. 

몮I have testimony from Willy Widdershins, Minerva, 
who happened to be in the bar at the time. He was 
heavily bandaged, it is true, but his hearing was quite 
unimpaired,몯 said Umbridge smugly. 몮He heard every 
word Potter said and hastened straight to the school 
to report to me 멪 몯 

몮Oh, so that몭s why he wasn몭t prosecuted for setting up 
all those regurgitating toilets!몯 said Professor 
McGonagall, raising her eyebrows. 몮What an 
interesting insight into our justice system!몯 

몮Blatant corruption!몯 roared the portrait of the 
corpulent, red-nosed wizard on the wall behind 
Dumbledore몭s desk. 몮The Ministry did not cut deals 
with petty criminals in my day, no sir, they did not!몯 

몮Thank you, Fortescue, that will do,몯 said 
Dumbledore softly. 

몮The purpose of Potter몭s meeting with these students,몯 
continued Professor Umbridge, 몮was to persuade 
them to join an illegal society, whose aim was to learn 

| 782Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




spells and curses the Ministry has decided are 
inappropriate for school-age 멪 몯 

몮I think you 11 find you몭re wrong there, Dolores,몯 said 
Dumbledore quietly, peering at her over the half- 
moon spectacles perched halfway down his crooked 
nose. 

Harry stared at him. He could not see how 
Dumbledore was going to talk him out of this one; if 
Willy Widdershins had indeed heard every word he 
said in the Hog몭s Head there was simply no escaping 
it. 

몮Oho!몯 said Fudge, bouncing up and down on the 
balls of his feet again. 몮Yes, do let몭s hear the latest 
cock-and-bull story designed to pull Potter out of 
trouble! Go on, then, Dumbledore, go on 멪 Willy 
Widdershins was lying, was he? Or was it Potter몭s 
identical twin in the Hog몭s Head that day? Or is there 
the usual simple explanation involving a reversal of 
time, a dead man coming back to life, and a couple of 
invisible dementors?몯 

Percy Weasley let out a hearty laugh. 

몮Oh, very good, Minister, very good!몯 

Harry could have kicked him. Then he saw, to his 
astonishment, that Dumbledore was smiling gently 
too. 

몮Cornelius, I do not deny 멪 and nor, I am sure, does 
Harry 멪 that he was in the Hog몭s Head that day, nor 
that he was trying to recruit students to a Defense 
Against the Dark Arts group. I am merely pointing out 
that Dolores is quite wrong to suggest that such a 
group was, at that time, illegal. If you remember, the 
Ministry decree banning all student societies was not 
| 783Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




put into effect until two days after Harry몭s Hogsmeade 
meeting, so he was not breaking any rules in the 
Hog몭s Head at all.몯 

Percy looked as though he had been struck in the 
face by something very heavy. Fudge remained 
motionless in mid-bounce, his mouth hanging open. 

Umbridge recovered first. 

몮That몭s all very fine, Headmaster,몯 she said, smiling 
sweetly. 몮But we are now nearly six months on from 
the introduction of Educational Decree Number 
Twenty-four. If the first meeting was not illegal, all 
those that have happened since most certainly are.몯 

몮Well,몯 said Dumbledore, surveying her with polite 
interest over the top of his interlocked fingers, 몮they 
certainly would be, if they had continued after the 
decree came into effect. Do you have any evidence 
that these meetings continued?몯 

As Dumbledore spoke, Harry heard a rustle behind 
him and rather thought Kingsley whispered 
something. He could have sworn too that he felt 
something brush against his side, a gentle something 
like a draft or bird wings, but looking down he saw 
nothing there. 

몮Evidence?몯 repeated Umbridge with that horrible 
wide toadlike smile. 몮Have you not been listening, 
Dumbledore? Why do you think Miss Edgecombe is 
here?몯 

몮Oh, can she tell us about six months몭 worth of 
meetings?몯 said Dumbledore, raising his eyebrows. 몮I 
was under the impression that she was merely 
reporting a meeting tonight.몯 



| 784Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Miss Edgecombe,몯 said Umbridge at once, 몮tell us 
how long these meetings have been going on, dear. 
You can simply nod or shake your head, I몭m sure that 
won몭t make the spots worse. Have they been 
happening regularly over the last six months?몯 

Harry felt a horrible plummeting in his stomach. This 
was it, they had hit a dead end of solid evidence that 
not even Dumbledore would be able to shift aside... 

몮Just nod or shake your head, dear,몯 Umbridge said 
coaxingly to Marietta. 몮Come on, now, that won몭t 
activate the jinx further...몯 

Everyone in the room was gazing at the top of 
Marietta몭s face. Only her eyes were visible between 
the pulled up robes and her curly fringe. Perhaps it 
was a trick of the firelight, but her eyes looked oddly 
blank. And then 멪 to Harry몭s utter amazement 멪 
Marietta shook her head. 

Umbridge looked quickly at Fudge and then back at 
Marietta. 

몮I don몭t think you understood the question, did you, 
dear? I몭m asking whether you몭ve been going to these 
meetings for the past six months? You have, haven몭t 
you?몯 

Again, Marietta shook her head. 

몮What do you mean by shaking your head, dear?몯 
said Umbridge in a testy voice. 

몮I would have thought her meaning was quite clear,몯 
said Professor McGonagall harshly. 몮There have been 
no secret meetings for the past six months. Is that 
correct, Miss Edgecombe?몯 



| 785Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Marietta nodded. 



몮But there was a meeting tonight!몯 said Umbridge 
furiously. 몮There was a meeting, Miss Edgecombe, 
you told me about it, in the Room of Requirement! 

And Potter was the leader, was he not, Potter 
organized it, Potter 멪 why are you shaking your head, 
girl?몯 

몮Well, usually when a person shakes their head,몯 said 
McGonagall coldly, 몮they mean 몬no.몭 So unless Miss 
Edgecombe is using a form of sign language as yet 
unknown to humans 멪 몯 

Professor Umbridge seized Marietta, pulled her 
around to face her, and began shaking her very hard. 
A split second later Dumbledore was on his feet, his 
wand raised. Kingsley started forward and Umbridge 
leapt back from Marietta, waving her hands in the air 
as though they had been burned. 

몮I cannot allow you to manhandle my students, 
Dolores,몯 said Dumbledore, and for the first time, he 
looked angry. 

몮You want to calm yourself, Madam Umbridge,몯 said 
Kingsley in his deep, slow voice. 몮You don몭t want to 
get yourself into trouble now.몯 

몮No,몯 said Umbridge breathlessly, glancing up at the 
towering figure of Kingsley. 몮I mean, yes 멪 you몭re 
right, Shacklebolt 멪 I 멪 I forgot myself.몯 

Marietta was standing exactly where Umbridge had 
released her. She seemed neither perturbed by 
Umbridge몭s sudden attack, nor relieved by her 
release. She was still clutching her robe up to her 
oddly blank eyes, staring straight ahead of her. A 
sudden suspicion connected to Kingsley몭s whisper 
| 786Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




and the thing he had felt shoot past him sprang into 
Harry몭s mind. 



몮Dolores,몯 said Fudge, with the air of trying to settle 
something once and for all, 몮the meeting tonight 멪 
the one we know definitely happened 멪 몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Umbridge, pulling herself together, 몮yes ... 
well, Miss Edgecombe tipped me off and I proceeded 
at once to the seventh floor, accompanied by certain 
trustworthy students, so as to catch those in the 
meeting red-handed. It appears that they were 
forewarned of my arrival, however, because when we 
reached the seventh floor they were running in every 
direction. It does not matter, however. I have all their 
names here, Miss Parkinson ran into the Room of 
Requirement for me to see if they had left anything 
behind... We needed evidence and the room provided 



And to Harry몭s horror, she withdrew from her pocket 
the list of names that had been pinned upon the 
Room of Requirement몭s wall and handed it to Fudge. 

몮The moment I saw Potter몭s name on the list, I knew 
what we were dealing with,몯 she said softly. 

몮Excellent,몯 said Fudge, a smile spreading across his 
face. 몮Excellent, Dolores. And ... by thunder ...몯 

He looked up at Dumbledore, who was still standing 
beside Marietta, his wand held loosely in his hand. 

몮See what they몭ve named themselves?몯 said Fudge 
quietly. 몮Dumbledore몭sArmy.몯 

Dumbledore reached out and took the piece of 
parchment from Fudge. He gazed at the heading 
scribbled by Hermione months before and for a 

| 787Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




moment seemed unable to speak. Then he looked up, 
smiling. 



몮Well, the game is up,몯 he said simply. 몮Would you 
like a written confession from me, Cornelius 멪 or will 
a statement before these witnesses suffice?몯 

Harry saw McGonagall and Kingsley look at each 
other. There was fear in both faces. He did not 
understand what was going on, and neither, 
apparently, did Fudge. 

몮Statement?몯 said Fudge slowly. 몮What 멪 I don몭t 멪 ?몯 

몮Dumbledore몭s Army, Cornelius,몯 said Dumbledore, 
still smiling as he waved the list of names before 
Fudge몭s face. 몮Not Potter몭s Army. Dumbledore몭s Army.몯 

몮But 멪 but 멪 몯 

Understanding blazed suddenly in Fudge몭s face. He 
took a horrified step backward, yelped, and jumped 
out of the fire again. 

몮You?몯 he whispered, stamping again on his 
smoldering cloak. 

몮That몭s right,몯 said Dumbledore pleasantly. 

몮You organized this?몯 

몮I did,몯 said Dumbledore. 

몮You recruited these students for 멪 for your army?몯 

몮Tonight was supposed to be the first meeting,몯 said 
Dumbledore, nodding. 몮Merely to see whether they 
would be interested in joining me. I see now that it 
was a mistake to invite Miss Edgecombe, of course.몯 

| 788Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Marietta nodded. Fudge looked from her to 
Dumbledore, his chest swelling. 



몮Then you have been plotting against me!몯 he yelled. 
몮That몭s right,몯 said Dumbledore cheerfully. 

몮NO!몯 shouted Harry. 

Kingsley flashed a look of warning at him, 

McGonagall widened her eyes threateningly, but it 
had suddenly dawned upon Harry what Dumbledore 
was about to do, and he could not let it happen. 

몮No 멪 Professor Dumbledore!몯 

몮Be quiet, Harry, or I am afraid you will have to leave 
my office,몯 said Dumbledore calmly. 

몮Yes, shut up, Potter!몯 barked Fudge, who was still 
ogling Dumbledore with a kind of horrified delight. 
몮Well, well, well 멪 I came here tonight expecting to 
expel Potter and instead 멪 몯 

몮Instead you get to arrest me,몯 said Dumbledore, 
smiling. 몮It몭s like losing a Knut and finding a Galleon, 
isn몭t it?몯 

몮Weasley!몯 cried Fudge, now positively quivering with 
delight, 몮Weasley, have you written it all down, 
everything he몭s said, his confession, have you got it?몯 

몮Yes, sir, I think so, sir!몯 said Percy eagerly, whose 
nose was splattered with ink from the speed of his 
note-taking. 

몮The bit about how he몭s been trying to build up an 
army against the Ministry, how he몭s been working to 
destabilize me?몯 

| 789Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Yes, sir, I몭ve got it, yes!몯 said Percy, scanning his 
notes joyfully. 

몮Very well, then,몯 said Fudge, now radiant with glee. 
몮Duplicate your notes, Weasley, and send a copy to 
the Daily Prophet at once. If we send a fast owl we 
should make the morning edition!몯 Percy dashed from 
the room, slamming the door behind him, and Fudge 
turned back to Dumbledore. 몮You will now be 
escorted back to the Ministry, where you will be 
formally charged and then sent to Azkaban to await 
trial!몯 

몮Ah,몯 said Dumbledore gently, 몮yes. Yes, I thought we 
might hit that little snag.몯 

몮Snag?몯 said Fudge, his voice still vibrating with joy. 

몮I see no snag, Dumbledore!몯 

몮Well,몯 said Dumbledore apologetically, 몮I몭m afraid I 
do.몯 

몮Oh really?몯 

몮Well 멪 it몭s just that you seem to be laboring under 
the delusion that I am going to 멪 what is the phrase? 
몬Come quietly. 몭 I am afraid I am not going to come 
quietly at all, Cornelius. I have absolutely no 
intention of being sent to Azkaban. I could break out, 
of course 멪 but what a waste of time, and frankly, I 
can think of a whole host of things I would rather be 
doing.몯 

Umbridge몭s face was growing steadily redder, she 
looked as though she was being filled with boiling 
water. Fudge stared at Dumbledore with a very silly 
expression on his face, as though he had just been 
stunned by a sudden blow and could not quite believe 
it had happened. He made a small choking noise and 
| 790Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




then looked around at Kingsley and the man with 
short gray hair, who alone of everyone in the room 
had remained entirely silent so far. The latter gave 
Fudge a reassuring nod and moved forward a little, 
away from the wall. Harry saw his hand drift, almost 
casually, toward his pocket. 

몮Don몭t be silly, Dawlish,몯 said Dumbledore kindly. 

몮I몭m sure you are an excellent Auror, I seem to 
remember that you achieved 몬Outstanding몭 in all your 
N.E.W.T.s, but if you attempt to 멪 er 멪 몬bring me in몭 
by force, I will have to hurt you.몯 

The man called Dawlish blinked, looking rather 
foolish. He looked toward Fudge again, but this time 
seemed to be hoping for a clue as to what to do next. 

몮So,몯 sneered Fudge, recovering himself, 몮you intend 
to take on Dawlish, Shacklebolt, Dolores, and myself 
single-handed, do you, Dumbledore?몯 

몮Merlin몭s beard, no,몯 said Dumbledore, smiling. 몮Not 
unless you are foolish enough to force me to.몯 

몮He will not be single-handed!몯 said Professor 
McGonagall loudly, plunging her hand inside her 
robes. 

몮Oh yes he will, Minerva!몯 said Dumbledore sharply. 
몮Hogwarts needs you!몯 

몮Enough of this rubbish!몯 said Fudge, pulling out his 
own wand. 몮Dawlish! Shacklebolt! Take him ). 몯 

A streak of silver light flashed around the room. There 
was a bang like a gunshot, and the floor trembled. A 
hand grabbed the scruff of Harry몭s neck and forced 
him down on the floor as a second silver flash went 
off 멪 several of the portraits yelled, Fawkes 
| 791Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




screeched, and a cloud of dust filled the air. Coughing 
in the dust, Harry saw a dark figure fall to the ground 
with a crash in front of him. There was a shriek and a 
thud and somebody cried, 몮No!몯 Then the sound of 
breaking glass, frantically scuffling footsteps, a groan 

멪 and silence. 

Harry struggled around to see who was half- 
strangling him and saw Professor McGonagall 
crouched beside him. She had forced both him and 
Marietta out of harm몭s way. Dust was still floating 
gently down through the air onto them. Panting 
slightly, Harry saw a very tall figure moving toward 
them. 

몮Are you all right?몯 said Dumbledore. 

몮Yes!몯 said Professor McGonagall, getting up and 
dragging Harry and Marietta with her. 

The dust was clearing. The wreckage of the office 
loomed into view: Dumbledore몭s desk had been 
overturned, all of the spindly tables had been 
knocked to the floor, their silver instruments in 
pieces. Fudge, Umbridge, Kingsley, and Dawlish lay 
motionless on the floor. Fawkes the phoenix soared in 
wide circles above them, singing softly. 

몮Unfortunately, I had to hex Kingsley too, or it would 
have looked very suspicious,몯 said Dumbledore in a 
low voice. 몮He was remarkably quick on the uptake, 
modifying Miss Edgecombe몭s memory like that while 
everyone was looking the other way 멪 thank him for 
me, won몭t you, Minerva? 

몮Now, they will all awake very soon and it will be best 
if they do not know that we had time to communicate 

멪 you must act as though no time has passed, as 



| 792Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




though they were merely knocked to the ground, they 
will not remember 멪 몯 

몮Where will you go, Dumbledore?몯 whispered 
Professor McGonagall. 몮Grimmauld Place?몯 

몮Oh no,몯 said Dumbledore with a grim smile. 몮I am 
not leaving to go into hiding. Fudge will soon wish 
he몭d never dislodged me from Hogwarts, I promise 
you...몯 

몮Professor Dumbledore ...몯 Harry began. 

He did not know what to say first: how sorry he was 
that he had started the D.A. in the first place and 
caused all this trouble, or how terrible he felt that 
Dumbledore was leaving to save him from expulsion? 
But Dumbledore cut him off before he could say 
another word. 

몮Listen to me, Harry,몯 he said urgently, 몮you must 
study Occlumency as hard as you can, do you 
understand me? Do everything Professor Snape tells 
you and practice it particularly every night before 
sleeping so that you can close your mind to bad 
dreams 멪 you will understand why soon enough, but 
you must promise me 멪 몯 

The man called Dawlish was stirring. Dumbledore 
seized Harry몭s wrist. 

몮Remember 멪 close your mind 멪 몯 

But as Dumbledore 몭s fingers closed over Harry몭s skin, 
a pain shot through the scar on his forehead, and he 
felt again that terrible, snakelike longing to strike 
Dumbledore, to bite him, to hurt him 멪 

몮 멪 you will understand,몯 whispered Dumbledore. 

| 793Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Fawkes circled the office and swooped low over him. 
Dumbledore released Harry, raised his hand, and 
grasped the phoenix몭s long golden tail. There was a 
flash of fire and the pair of them had gone. 

몮Where is he?몯 yelled Fudge, pushing himself up from 
the ground. 몮Where is he?몯 

몮I don몭t know!몯 shouted Kingsley, also leaping to his 
feet. 

몮Well, he can몭t have Disapparated!몯 cried Umbridge. 
몮You can몭t inside this school 멪 몯 

몮The stairs!몯 cried Dawlish, and he flung himself upon 
the door, wrenched it open, and disappeared, followed 
closely by Kingsley and Umbridge. Fudge hesitated, 
then got to his feet slowly, brushing dust from his 
front. There was a long and painful silence. 

몮Well, Minerva,몯 said Fudge nastily, straightening his 
torn shirtsleeve, 몮I몭m afraid this is the end of your 
friend Dumbledore.몯 

몮You think so, do you?몯 said Professor McGonagall 
scornfully. 

Fudge seemed not to hear her. He was looking around 
at the wrecked office. A few of the portraits hissed at 
him; one or two even made rude hand gestures. 

몮You몭d better get those two off to bed,몯 said Fudge, 
looking back at Professor McGonagall with a 
dismissive nod toward Harry and Marietta. 

She said nothing, but marched Harry and Marietta to 
the door. As it swung closed behind them, Harry 
heard Phineas Nigellus몭s voice. 



| 794Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮You know, Minister, I disagree with Dumbledore on 
many counts ... but you cannot deny he몭s got style...몯 



| 795Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






SNAPE몭S WORST MEMORY 

멪 BY ORDER OF 멪 

THE MINISTRY OF MAGIC 

Dolores Jane Umbridge (High Inquisitor) has replaced 
Albus Dumbledore as Head of Hogwarts School of 
Witchcraft and Wizardry. 

The above is in accordance with 

Educational Decree Number Twenty-eight. 

Signed: 

Cornelius Oswald Fudge 
MINISTER OF MAGIC 

The notices had gone up all over the school overnight, 
but they did not explain how every single person 
within the castle seemed to know that Dumbledore 



| 796Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



had overcome two Aurors, the High Inquisitor, the 
Minister of Magic, and his Junior Assistant to escape. 
No matter where Harry went within the castle next 
day, the sole topic of conversation was Dumbledore몭s 
flight, and though some of the details might have 
gone awry in the retelling (Harry overheard one 
second-year girl assuring another that Fudge was 
now lying in St. Mungo몭s with a pumpkin for a head), 
it was surprising how accurate the rest of their 
information was. Everybody seemed aware, for 
instance, that Harry and Marietta were the only 
students to have witnessed the scene in Dumbledore몭s 
office, and as Marietta was now in the hospital wing, 
Harry found himself besieged with requests to give a 
firsthand account wherever he went. 

몮Dumbledore will be back before long,몯 said Ernie 
Macmillan confidently on the way back from 
Herbology after listening intently to Harry몭s story. 
몮They couldn몭t keep him away in our second year and 
they won몭t be able to this time. The Fat Friar told me 
...몯 He dropped his voice conspiratorially, so that 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione had to lean closer to him 
to hear, "... that Umbridge tried to get back into his 
office last night after they몭d searched the castle and 
grounds for him. Couldn몭t get past the gargoyle. The 
Head몭s office has sealed itself against her.몯 Ernie 
smirked. 몮Apparently she had a right little tantrum...몯 

몮Oh, I expect she really fancied herself sitting up 
there in the Head몭s office,몯 said Hermione viciously, as 
they walked up the stone steps into the entrance hall. 
몮Lording it over all the other teachers, the stupid 
puffed-up, power-crazy old 멪 몯 

몮Now, do you really want to finish that sentence, 
Granger?몯 



| 797Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Draco Malfoy had slid out from behind the door, 
followed by Crabbe and Goyle. His pale, pointed face 
was alight with malice. 

몮Afraid I몭m going to have to dock a few points from 
Gryffindor and Hufflepuff,몯 he drawled. 

몮It몭s only teachers that can dock points from Houses, 
Malfoy,몯 said Ernie at once. 

몮Yeah, we몭re prefects too, remember?몯 snarled Ron. 

몮I know prefects can몭t dock points, Weasel King,몯 
sneered Malfoy; Crabbe and Goyle sniggered. 몮But 
members of the Inquisitorial Squad 멪 몯 

몮The what?몯 said Hermione sharply. 

몮The Inquisitorial Squad, Granger,몯 said Malfoy, 
pointing toward a tiny silver I upon his robes just 
beneath his prefect몭s badge. 몮A select group of 
students who are supportive of the Ministry of Magic, 
hand-picked by Professor Umbridge. Anyway, 
members of the Inquisitorial Squad do have the power 
to dock points... So, Granger, I몭ll have five from you 
for being rude about our new headmistress... 
Macmillan, five for contradicting me... Five because I 
don몭t like you, Potter ... Weasley, your shirt몭s 
untucked, so I몭ll have another five for that... Oh yeah, 

I forgot, you몭re a Mudblood, Granger, so ten for 
that...몯 

Ron pulled out his wand, but Hermione pushed it 
away, whispering, 몮Don몭t!몯 

몮Wise move, Granger,몯 breathed Malfoy. 몮New Head, 
new times ... Be good now, Potty ... Weasel King ...몯 



| 798Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He strode away, laughing heartily with Crabbe and 
Goyle. 

몮He was bluffing,몯 said Ernie, looking appalled. 몮He 
can몭t be allowed to dock points ... that would be 
ridiculous... It would completely undermine the 
prefect system...몯 

But Harry, Ron, and Hermione had turned 
automatically toward the giant hourglasses set in 
niches along the wall behind them, which recorded 
the House points. Gryffindor and Ravenclaw had been 
neck and neck in the lead that morning. Even as they 
watched, stones flew upward, reducing the amounts 
in the lower bulbs. In fact, the only glass that seemed 
unchanged was the emerald-filled one of Slytherin. 

몮Noticed, have you?몯 said Fred몭s voice. 

He and George had just come down the marble 
staircase and joined Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ernie 
in front of the hourglasses. 

몮Malfoy just docked us all about fifty points,몯 said 
Harry furiously, as they watched several more stones 
fly upward from the Gryffindor hourglass. 

몮Yeah, Montague tried to do us during break,몯 said 
George. 

몮What do you mean, 몬tried몭?몯 said Ron quickly. 

몮He never managed to get all the words out,몯 said 
Fred, 몮due to the fact that we forced him headfirst 
into that Vanishing Cabinet on the first floor.몯 

Hermione looked very shocked. 

몮But you몭ll get into terrible trouble!몯 

| 799Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Not until Montague reappears, and that could take 
weeks, I dunno where we sent him,몯 said Fred coolly. 
몮Anyway ... we몭ve decided we don몭t care about getting 
into trouble anymore.몯 

몮Have you ever?몯 asked Hermione. 

몮 몭Course we have,몯 said George. 몮Never been expelled, 
have we?몯 

몮We몭ve always known where to draw the line,몯 said 
Fred. 

몮We might have put a toe across it occasionally,몯 said 
George. 

몮But we몭ve always stopped short of causing real 
mayhem,몯 said Fred. 

몮But now?몯 said Ron tentatively. 

몮Well, now 멪 몯 said George. 

몮 멪 what with Dumbledore gone 멪 몯 said Fred. 

몮 멪 we reckon a bit of mayhem 멪 몯 said George. 

몮 멪 is exactly what our dear new Head deserves,몯 said 
Fred. 

몮You mustn몭t!몯 whispered Hermione. 몮You really 
mustn몭t! She몭d love a reason to expel you!몯 

몮You don몭t get it, Hermione, do you?몯 said Fred, 
smiling at her. 몮We don몭t care about staying anymore. 
We몭d walk out right now if we weren몭t determined to 
do our bit for Dumbledore first. So anyway,몯 he 
checked his watch, 몮phase one is about to begin. I몭d 
get in the Great Hall for lunch if I were you, that way 

| 800Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




the teachers will see you can몭t have had anything to 
do with it.몯 

몮Anything to do with what?몯 said Hermione anxiously. 

몮You몭ll see,몯 said George. 몮Run along, now.몯 

Fred and George turned away and disappeared in the 
swelling crowd descending the stairs toward lunch. 
Looking highly disconcerted, Ernie muttered 
something about unfinished Transfiguration 
homework and scurried away. 

몮I think we should get out of here, you know,몯 said 
Hermione nervously. 몮Just in case ...몯 

몮Yeah, all right,몯 said Ron, and the three of them 
moved toward the doors to the Great Hall, but Harry 
had barely glimpsed today몭s ceiling of scudding white 
clouds when somebody tapped him on the shoulder 
and, turning, he found himself almost nose to nose 
with Filch, the caretaker. He took several hasty steps 
backward; Filch was best viewed at a distance. 

몮The headmistress would like to see you, Potter,몯 he 
leered. 

몮I didn몭t do it,몯 said Harry stupidly, thinking of 
whatever Fred and George were planning. Filch몭s 
jowls wobbled with silent laughter. 

몮Guilty conscience, eh?몯 he wheezed. 몮Follow me...몯 

Harry glanced back at Ron and Hermione, who were 
both looking worried. He shrugged and followed Filch 
back into the entrance hall, against the tide of hungry 
students. 



| 801Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Filch seemed to be in an extremely good mood; he 
hummed creakily under his breath as they climbed 
the marble staircase. As they reached the first landing 
he said, 몮Things are changing around here, Potter.몯 

몮I몭ve noticed,몯 said Harry coldly. 

몮Yerse ... I몭ve been telling Dumbledore for years and 
years he몭s too soft with you all,몯 said Filch, chuckling 
nastily. 몮You filthy little beasts would never have 
dropped Stinkpellets if you몭d known I had it in my 
power to whip you raw, would you, now? Nobody 
would have thought of throwing Fanged Frisbees 
down the corridors if I could몭ve strung you up by the 
ankles in my office, would they? But when 
Educational Decree Twenty-nine comes in, Potter, I몭ll 
be allowed to do them things... And she몭s asked the 
Minister to sign an order for the expulsion of Peeves... 
Oh, things are going to be very different around here 
with her in charge...몯 

Umbridge had obviously gone to some lengths to get 
Filch on her side, Harry thought, and the worst of it 
was that he would probably prove an important 
weapon; his knowledge of the school몭s secret 
passageways and hiding places was probably second 
only to the Weasley twins. 

몮Here we are,몯 he said, leering down at Harry as he 
rapped three times upon Professor Umbridge몭s door 
and pushed it open. 몮The Potter boy to see you, 
ma몭am.몯 

Umbridge몭s office, so very familiar to Harry from his 
many detentions, was the same as usual except for 
the large wooden block lying across the front of her 
desk on which golden letters spelled the word 
HEADMISTRESS; also his Firebolt, and Fred몭s and 
George몭s Clean-sweeps, which he saw with a pang 
| 802Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




were now chained and padlocked to a stout iron peg 
in the wall behind the desk. Umbridge was sitting 
behind the desk, busily scribbling upon some of her 
pink parchment, but looked up and smiled widely at 
their entrance. 

몮Thank you, Argus,몯 she said sweetly. 

몮Not at all, ma몭am, not at all,몯 said Filch, bowing as 
low as his rheumatism would permit, and exiting 
backward. 

몮Sit,몯 said Umbridge curtly, pointing toward a chair, 
and Harry sat. She continued to scribble for a few 
moments. He watched some of the foul kittens 
gamboling around the plates over her head, 
wondering what fresh horror she had in store for him. 

몮Well now,몯 she said finally, setting down her quill 
and looking like a toad about to swallow a 
particularly juicy fly. 몮What would you like to drink?몯 

몮What?몯 said Harry, quite sure he had misheard her. 

몮To drink, Mr. Potter,몯 she said, smiling still more 
widely. 몮Tea? Coffee? Pumpkin juice?몯 

As she named each drink, she gave her short wand a 
wave, and a cup or glass of it appeared upon her 
desk. 

몮Nothing, thank you,몯 said Harry. 

몮I wish you to have a drink with me,몯 she said, her 
voice becoming more dangerously sweet. 몮Choose 
one.몯 

몮Fine ... tea then,몯 said Harry, shrugging. 



| 803Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




She got up and made quite a performance of adding 
milk with her back to him. She then bustled around 
the desk with it, smiling in sinisterly sweet fashion. 

몮There,몯 she said, handing it to him. 몮Drink it before it 
gets cold, won몭t you? Well, now, Mr. Potter ... I 
thought we ought to have a little chat, after the 
distressing events of last night.몯 

He said nothing. She settled herself back into her seat 
and waited. When several long moments had passed 
in silence, she said gaily, 몮You몭re not drinking up!몯 

He raised the cup to his lips and then, just as 
suddenly, lowered it. One of the horrible painted 
kittens behind Umbridge had great round blue eyes 
just like Mad-Eye Moody몭s magical one, and it had 
just occurred to Harry what Mad-Eye would say if he 
ever heard that Harry had drunk anything offered by 
a known enemy. 

몮What몭s the matter?몯 said Umbridge, who was still 
watching him. 몮Do you want sugar?몯 

몮No,몯 said Harry. 

He raised the cup to his lips again and pretended to 
take a sip, though keeping his mouth tightly closed. 
Umbridge몭s smile widened. 

몮Good,몯 she whispered. 몮Very good. Now then ...몯 She 
leaned forward a little. 몮Where is Albus Dumbledore?몯 

몮No idea,몯 said Harry promptly. 

몮Drink up, drink up,몯 she said, still smiling. 몮Now, 

Mr. Potter, let us not play childish games. I know that 
you know where he has gone. You and Dumbledore 



| 804Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




have been in this together from the beginning. 
Consider your position, Mr. Potter...몯 

몮I don몭t know where he is.몯 

Harry pretended to drink again. 

몮Very well,몯 said Umbridge, looking displeased. 몮In 
that case, you will kindly tell me the whereabouts of 
Sirius Black.몯 

Harry몭s stomach turned over and his hand holding 
the teacup shook so that the cup rattled in its saucer. 
He tilted the cup to his mouth with his lips pressed 
together, so that some of the hot liquid trickled down 
onto his robes. 

몮I don몭t know,몯 he said a little too quickly. 

몮Mr. Potter,몯 said Umbridge, 몮let me remind you that 
it was I who almost caught the criminal Black in the 
Gryffindor fire in October. I know perfectly well it was 
you he was meeting and if I had had any proof neither 
of you would be at large today, I promise you. I 
repeat, Mr. Potter ... Where is Sirius Black?몯 

몮No idea,몯 said Harry loudly. 몮Haven몭t got a clue.몯 

They stared at each other so long that Harry felt his 
eyes watering. Then she stood up. 

몮Very well, Potter, I will take your word for it this 
time, but be warned: The might of the Ministry stands 
behind me. All channels of communication in and out 
of this school are being monitored. A Floo Network 
Regulator is keeping watch over every fire in Hogwarts 
멪 except my own, of course. My Inquisitorial Squad 
is opening and reading all owl post entering and 
leaving the castle. And Mr. Filch is observing all 
| 805Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




secret passages in and out of the castle. If I find a 
shred of evidence ...몯 



BOOM! 

The very floor of the office shook; Umbridge slipped 
sideways, clutching her desk for support, looking 
shocked. 

몮What was 멪 ?몯 

She was gazing toward the door; Harry took the 
opportunity to empty his almost full cup of tea into 
the nearest vase of dried flowers. He could hear 
people running and screaming several floors below. 

몮Back to lunch with you, Potter!몯 cried Umbridge, 
raising her wand and dashing out of the office. Harry 
gave her a few seconds몭 start then hurried after her to 
see what the source of all the uproar was. 

It was not difficult to find. One floor down, 
pandemonium reigned. Somebody (and Harry had a 
very shrewd idea who) had set off what seemed to be 
an enormous crate of enchanted fireworks. 

Dragons comprised entirely of green-and-gold sparks 
were soaring up and down the corridors, emitting 
loud fiery blasts and bangs as they went. Shocking- 
pink Catherine wheels five feet in diameter were 
whizzing lethally through the air like so many flying 
saucers. Rockets with long tails of brilliant silver stars 
were ricocheting off the walls. Sparklers were writing 
swearwords in midair of their own accord. 

Firecrackers were exploding like mines everywhere 
Harry looked, and instead of burning themselves out, 
fading from sight, or fizzling to a halt, these 
pyrotechnical miracles seemed to be gaining in energy 
and momentum the longer he watched. 

| 806Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Filch and Umbridge were standing, apparently 
transfixed with horror, halfway down the stairs. As 
Harry watched, one of the larger Catherine wheels 
seemed to decide that what it needed was more room 
to maneuver; it whirled toward Umbridge and Filch 
with a sinister voheeeeeeeeee. Both adults yelled with 
fright and ducked and it soared straight out of the 
window behind them and off across the grounds. 
Meanwhile, several of the dragons and a large purple 
bat that was smoking ominously took advantage of 
the open door at the end of the corridor to escape 
toward the second floor. 

몮Hurry, Filch, hurry!몯 shrieked Umbridge. 몮They몭ll be 
all over the school unless we do something 멪 

Stupefy]몯 

A jet of red light shot out of the end of her wand and 
hit one of the rockets. Instead of freezing in midair, it 
exploded with such force that it blasted a hole in a 
painting of a soppy-looking witch in the middle of a 
meadow 멪 she ran for it just in time, reappearing 
seconds later squashed into the painting next door, 
where a couple of wizards playing cards stood up 
hastily to make room for her. 

몮Don몭t Stun them, Filch!몯 shouted Umbridge angrily, 
for all the world as though it had been his suggestion. 

몮Right you are, Headmistress!몯 wheezed Filch, who 
was a Squib and could no more have Stunned the 
fireworks than swallowed them. He dashed to a 
nearby cupboard, pulled out a broom, and began 
swatting at the fireworks in midair; within seconds 
the head of the broom was ablaze. 

Harry had seen enough. Laughing, he ducked down 
low, ran to a door he knew was concealed behind a 
tapestry a little way along the corridor and slipped 

| 807Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




through it to find Fred and George hiding just behind 
it, listening to Umbridge몭s and Filch몭s yells and 
quaking with suppressed mirth. 

몮Impressive,몯 Harry said quietly, grinning. 몮Very 
impressive ... You몭ll put Dr. Filibuster out of business, 
no problem...몯 

몮Cheers,몯 whispered George, wiping tears of laughter 
from his face. 몮Oh, I hope she tries Vanishing them 
next... They multiply by ten every time you try...몯 

The fireworks continued to burn and to spread all 
over the school that afternoon. Though they caused 
plenty of disruption, particularly the firecrackers, the 
other teachers did not seem to mind them very much. 

몮Dear, dear,몯 said Professor McGonagall sardonically, 
as one of the dragons soared around her classroom, 
emitting loud bangs and exhaling flame. 몮Miss Brown, 
would you mind running along to the headmistress 
and informing her that we have an escaped firework 
in our classroom?몯 

The upshot of it all was that Professor Umbridge 
spent her first afternoon as headmistress running all 
over the school answering the summonses of the 
other teachers, none of whom seemed able to rid their 
rooms of the fireworks without her. When the final 
bell rang and the students were heading back to 
Gryffindor Tower with their bags, Harry saw, with 
immense satisfaction, a disheveled and soot- 
blackened Umbridge tottering sweaty-faced from 
Professor Flitwick몭s classroom. 

몮Thank you so much, Professor!몯 said Professor 
Flitwick in his squeaky little voice. 몮I could have got 
rid of the sparklers myself, of course, but I wasn몭t 
sure whether I had the authority...몯 

| 808Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Beaming, he closed his classroom door in her snarling 
face. 

Fred and George were heroes that night in the 
Gryffindor common room. Even Hermione fought her 
way through the excited crowd around them to 
congratulate them. 

몮They were wonderful fireworks,몯 she said admiringly. 

몮Thanks,몯 said George, looking both surprised and 
pleased. 몮Weasleys몭 Wildfire Whiz-Bangs. Only thing 
is, we used our whole stock, we몭re going to have to 
start again from scratch now...몯 

몮It was worth it, though,몯 said Fred, who was taking 
orders from clamoring Gryffindors. 몮If you want to 
add your name to the waiting list, Hermione, it몭s five 
Galleons for your Basic Blaze box and twenty for the 
Deflagration Deluxe...몯 

Hermione returned to the table where Harry and Ron 
were sitting staring at their schoolbags as though 
hoping their homework might spring out of it and 
start doing itself. 

몮Oh, why don몭t we have a night off?몯 said Hermione 
brightly, as a silver-tailed Weasley rocket zoomed past 
the window. 몮After all, the Easter holidays start on 
Friday, we몭ll have plenty of time then...몯 

몮Are you feeling all right?몯 Ron asked, staring at her 
in disbelief. 

몮Now you mention it,몯 said Hermione happily, 몮d몭you 
know ... I think I몭m feeling a bit ... rebellious.몯 

Harry could still hear the distant bangs of escaped 
firecrackers when he and Ron went up to bed an hour 

| 809Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




later, and as he got undressed a sparkler floated past 
the tower, still resolutely spelling out the word POO. 

He got into bed, yawning. With his glasses off, the 
occasional fire-work still passing the window became 
blurred, looking like sparkling clouds, beautiful and 
mysterious against the black sky. He turned onto his 
side, wondering how Umbridge was feeling about her 
first day in Dumbledore몭s job, and how Fudge would 
react when he heard that the school had spent most 
of the day in a state of advanced disruption... Smiling 
to himself, he closed his eyes... 

The whizzes and bangs of escaped fireworks in the 
grounds seemed to be growing more distant ... or 
perhaps he, Harry, was simply speeding away from 
them... 

He had fallen right into the corridor leading to the 
Department of Mysteries. He was speeding toward the 
plain black door... Let it open... Let it open... 

It did. He was inside the circular room lined with 
doors... He crossed it, placed his hand upon an 
identical door, and it swung inward... 

Now he was in a long, rectangular room full of an odd, 
mechanical clicking. There were dancing flecks of 
light on the walls but he did not pause to 
investigate... He had to go on... 

There was a door at the far end... It too opened at his 
touch... 

And now he was in a dimly lit room as high and wide 
as a church, full of nothing but rows and rows of 
towering shelves, each laden with small, dusty, spun- 
glass spheres... Now Harry몭s heart was beating fast 
with excitement... He knew where to go... He ran 
| 810Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




forward, but his footsteps made no noise in the 
enormous, deserted room... 

There was something in this room he wanted very, 
very much... 

Something he wanted... or somebody else wanted... 

His scar was hurting. . . 

BANG! Harry awoke instantly, confused and angry. 
The dark dormitory was full of the sound of laughter. 

몮Cool!몯 said Seamus, who was silhouetted against the 
window. 

몮I think one of those Catherine wheels hit a rocket 
and it몭s like they mated, come and see!몯 

Harry heard Ron and Dean scramble out of bed for a 
better look. He lay quite still and silent while the pain 
in his scar subsided and disappointment washed over 
him. He felt as though a wonderful treat had been 
snatched from him at the very last moment... He had 
got so close that time... 

Glittering, pink-and-silver winged piglets were now 
soaring past the windows of Gryffindor Tower. Harry 
lay and listened to the appreciative whoops of 
Gryffindors in the dormitories below them. His 
stomach gave a sickening jolt as he remembered that 
he had Occlumency the following evening. . . 

Harry spent the whole of the next day dreading what 
Snape was going to say if he found out how much 
farther into the Department of Mysteries he had 
penetrated during his last dream. With a surge of 
guilt he realized that he had not practiced 
Occlumency once since their last lesson: There had 
| 811Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




been too much going on since Dumbledore had left. 

He was sure he would not have been able to empty 
his mind even if he had tried. He doubted, however, 
whether Snape would accept that excuse... 

He attempted a little last-minute practice during 
classes that day, but it was no good, Hermione kept 
asking him what was wrong whenever he fell silent 
trying to rid himself of all thought and emotion and, 
after all, the best moment to empty his brain was not 
while teachers were firing review questions at the 
class. 

Resigned to the worst, he set off for Snape 몭s office 
after dinner. Halfway across the entrance hall, 
however, Cho came hurrying up to him. 

몮Over here,몯 said Harry, glad of a reason to postpone 
his meeting with Snape and beckoning her across to 
the corner of the entrance hall where the giant 
hourglasses stood. Gryffindor몭s was now almost 
empty. 몮Are you okay? Umbridge hasn몭t been asking 
you about the D.A., has she?몯 

몮Oh no,몯 said Cho hurriedly. 몮No, it was only ... Well, I 
just wanted to say ... Harry, I never dreamed Marietta 
would tell...몯 

몮Yeah, well,몯 said Harry moodily. He did feel Cho 
might have chosen her friends a bit more carefully. It 
was small consolation that the last he had heard, 
Marietta was still up in the hospital wing and Madam 
Pomfrey had not been able to make the slightest 
improvement to her pimples. 

몮She몭s a lovely person really,몯 said Cho. 몮She just 
made a mistake 멪 몯 



Harry looked at her incredulously. 

| 812Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮A lovely person who made a mistake? She sold us all 
out, including you!몯 

몮Well ... we all got away, didn몭t we?몯 said Cho 
pleadingly. 몮You know, her mum works for the 
Ministry, it몭s really difficult for her 멪 몯 

몮Ron몭s dad works for the Ministry too!몯 Harry said 
furiously. 몮And in case you hadn몭t noticed, he hasn몭t 
got 몬sneak몭 written across his face 멪 몯 

몮That was a really horrible trick of Hermione 
Granger몭s,몯 said Cho fiercely. 몮She should have told 
us she몭d jinxed that list 멪 몯 

몮I think it was a brilliant idea,몯 said Harry coldly. Cho 
flushed and her eyes grew brighter. 

몮Oh yes, I forgot 멪 of course, if it was darling 
Hermione몭s idea 멪 몯 

몮Don몭t start crying again,몯 said Harry warningly. 

몮I wasn몭t going to!몯 she shouted. 

몮Yeah ... well ... good,몯 he said. 몮I몭ve got enough to 
cope with at the moment.몯 

몮Go and cope with it then!몯 she said furiously, turning 
on her heel and stalking off. 

Fuming, Harry descended the stairs to Snape몭s 
dungeon, and though he knew from experience how 
much easier it would be for Snape to penetrate his 
mind if he arrived angry and resentful, he succeeded 
in nothing but thinking of a few more good things he 
should have said to Cho about Marietta before 
reaching the dungeon door. 



| 813Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮You몭re late, Potter,몯 said Snape coldly, as Harry 
closed the door behind him. 

Snape was standing with his back to Harry, removing, 
as usual, certain of his thoughts and placing them 
carefully in Dumbledore몭s Pensieve. He dropped the 
last silvery strand into the stone basin and turned to 
face Harry. 

몮So,몯 he said. 몮Have you been practicing?몯 

몮Yes,몯 Harry lied, looking carefully at one of the legs of 
Snape몭s desk. 

몮Well, we몭ll soon find out, won몭t we?몯 said Snape 
smoothly. 몮Wand out, Potter.몯 

Harry moved into his usual position, facing Snape 
with the desk between them. His heart was pumping 
fast with anger at Cho and anxiety about how much 
Snape was about to extract from his mind. 

몮On the count of three then,몯 said Snape lazily. 몮One 
멪 two 멪 몯 

Snape몭s office door banged open and Draco Malfoy 
sped in. 

몮Professor Snape, sir 멪 oh 멪 sorry 멪 몯 

Malfoy was looking at Snape and Harry in some 
surprise. 

몮It몭s all right, Draco,몯 said Snape, lowering his wand. 
몮Potter is here for a little Remedial Potions.몯 

Harry had not seen Malfoy look so gleeful since 
Umbridge had turned up to inspect Hagrid. 



| 814Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I didn몭t know,몯 he said, leering at Harry, who knew 
his face was burning. He would have given a great 
deal to be able to shout the truth at Malfoy 멪 or, even 
better, to hit him with a good curse. 

몮Well, Draco, what is it?몯 asked Snape. 

몮It몭s Professor Umbridge, sir 멪 she needs your help,몯 
said Malfoy. 몮They몭ve found Montague, sir. He몭s 
turned up jammed inside a toilet on the fourth floor.몯 

몮How did he get in there?몯 demanded Snape. 

몮I don몭t know, sir, he몭s a bit confused...몯 

몮Very well, very well 멪 Potter,몯 said Snape, 몮we shall 
resume this lesson tomorrow evening instead.몯 

He turned and swept from his office. Malfoy mouthed 
몮Remedial Potions?몯 at Harry behind Snape 몭s back 
before following him. 

Seething, Harry replaced his wand inside his robes 
and made to leave the room. At least he had twenty- 
four more hours in which to practice; he knew he 
ought to feel grateful for the narrow escape, though it 
was hard that it came at the expense of Malfoy telling 
the whole school that he needed Remedial Potions... 

He was at the office door when he saw it: a patch of 
shivering light dancing on the door frame. He 
stopped, looking at it, reminded of something... Then 
he remembered: It was a little like the lights he had 
seen in his dream last night, the lights in the second 
room he had walked through on his journey through 
the Department of Mysteries. 

He turned around. The light was coming from the 
Pensieve sitting on Snape 몭s desk. The silver- white 

| 815Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




contents were ebbing and swirling within. Snape몭s 
thoughts . . . things he did not want Harry to see if he 
broke through Snape몭s defenses accidentally... 

Harry gazed at the Pensieve, curiosity welling inside 
him... What was it that Snape was so keen to hide 
from Harry? 

The silvery lights shivered on the wall... Harry took 
two steps toward the desk, thinking hard. Could it 
possibly be information about the Department of 
Mysteries that Snape was determined to keep from 
him? 

Harry looked over his shoulder, his heart now 
pumping harder and faster than ever. How long would 
it take Snape to release Montague from the toilet? 
Would he come straight back to his office afterward, 
or accompany Montague to the hospital wing? Surely 
the latter . . . Montague was Captain of the Slytherin 
Quidditch team, Snape would want to make sure he 
was all right... 

Harry walked the remaining few feet to the Pensieve 
and stood over it, gazing into its depths. He hesitated, 
listening, then pulled out his wand again. The office 
and the corridor beyond were completely silent. He 
gave the contents of the Pensieve a small prod with 
the end of his wand. 

The silvery stuff within began to swirl very fast. Harry 
leaned forward over it and saw that it had become 
transparent. He was, once again, looking down into a 
room as though through a circular window in the 
ceiling... In fact, unless he was much mistaken, he 
was looking down upon the Great Hall... 

His breath was actually fogging the surface of Snape몭s 
thoughts... His brain seemed to be in limbo... It would 

| 816Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




be insane to do the thing that he was so strongly 
tempted to do... He was trembling... Snape could be 
back at any moment ... but Harry thought of Cho몭s 
anger, of Malfoy몭s jeering face, and a reckless daring 
seized him. 

He took a great gulp of breath and plunged his face 
into the surface of Snape몭s thoughts. At once, the 
floor of the office lurched, tipping Harry headfirst into 
the Pensieve... 

He was falling through cold blackness, spinning 
furiously as he went, and then 멪 

He was standing in the middle of the Great Hall, but 
the four House tables were gone. Instead there were 
more than a hundred smaller tables, all facing the 
same way, at each of which sat a student, head bent 
low, scribbling on a roll of parchment. The only sound 
was the scratching of quills and the occasional rustle 
as somebody adjusted their parchment. It was clearly 
exam time. 

Sunshine was streaming through the high windows 
onto the bent heads, which shone chestnut and 
copper and gold in the bright light. Harry looked 
around carefully. Snape had to be here somewhere... 
This was his memory. . . 

And there he was, at a table right behind Harry. 

Harry stared. Snape-the-teenager had a stringy, pallid 
look about him, like a plant kept in the dark. His hair 
was lank and greasy and was flopping onto the table, 
his hooked nose barely half an inch from the surface 
of the parchment as he scribbled. Harry moved 
around behind Snape and read the heading of the 
examination paper: 

DEFENSE AGAINST THE DARK ARTS 멪 

| 817Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




ORDINARY WIZARDING LEVEL 



So Snape had to be fifteen or sixteen, around Harry몭s 
own age. His hand was flying across the parchment; 
he had written at least a foot more than his closest 
neighbors, and yet his writing was minuscule and 
cramped. 

몮Five more minutes!몯 

The voice made Harry jump; turning, he saw the top 
of Professor Flitwick몭s head moving between the desks 
a short distance away. Professor Flitwick was walking 
past a boy with untidy black hair . . . very untidy black 
hair. . . 

Harry moved so quickly that, had he been solid, he 
would have knocked desks flying. Instead he seemed 
to slide, dreamlike, across two aisles and up a third. 
The back of the black-haired boy몭s head drew nearer 
and nearer. . . He was straightening up now, putting 
down his quill, pulling his roll of parchment toward 
him so as to reread what he had written... 

Harry stopped in front of the desk and gazed down at 
his fifteen-year- old father. 

Excitement exploded in the pit of his stomach: It was 
as though he was looking at himself but with 
deliberate mistakes. James몭s eyes were hazel, his 
nose was slightly longer than Harry몭s, and there was 
no scar on his forehead, but they had the same thin 
face, same mouth, same eyebrows. James몭s hair 
stuck up at the back exactly as Harry몭s did, his hands 
could have been Harry몭s, and Harry could tell that 
when James stood up, they would be within an inch 
of each other몭s heights. 



| 818Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




James yawned hugely and rumpled up his hair, 
making it even messier than it had been. Then, with a 
glance toward Professor Flitwick, he turned in his 
seat and grinned at a boy sitting four seats behind 
him. 

With another shock of excitement, Harry saw Sirius 
give James the thumbs-up. Sirius was lounging in his 
chair at his ease, tilting it back on two legs. He was 
very good-looking; his dark hair fell into his eyes with 
a sort of casual elegance neither James몭s nor Harry몭s 
could ever have achieved, and a girl sitting behind 
him was eyeing him hopefully, though he didn몭t seem 
to have noticed. And two seats along from this girl 멪 
Harry몭s stomach gave another pleasurable squirm 멪 
was Remus Lupin. He looked rather pale and peaky 
(was the full moon approaching?) and was absorbed 
in the exam: As he reread his answers he scratched 
his chin with the end of his quill, frowning slightly. 

So that meant Wormtail had to be around here 
somewhere too . . . and sure enough, Harry spotted 
him within seconds: a small, mousy-haired boy with a 
pointed nose. Wormtail looked anxious; he was 
chewing his fingernails, staring down at his paper, 
scuffing the ground with his toes. Every now and then 
he glanced hopefully at his neighbor몭s paper. Harry 
stared at Wormtail for a moment, then back at 
James, who was now doodling on a bit of scrap 
parchment. He had drawn a Snitch and was now 
tracing the letters L. E. What did they stand for? 

몮Quills down, please!몯 squeaked Professor Flitwick. 
몮That means you too, Stebbins! Please remain seated 
while I collect your parchment! Acciol몯 

More than a hundred rolls of parchment zoomed into 
the air and into Professor Flitwick몭s outstretched 
arms, knocking him backward off his feet. Several 

| 819Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




people laughed. A couple of students at the front 
desks got up, took hold of Professor Flitwick beneath 
the elbows, and lifted him onto his feet again. 

몮Thank you ... thank you,몯 panted Professor Flitwick. 
몮Very well, everybody, you몭re free to go!몯 

Harry looked down at his father, who had hastily 
crossed out the L. E. he had been embellishing, 
jumped to his feet, stuffed his quill and the exam 
question paper into his bag, which he slung over his 
back, and stood waiting for Sirius to join him. 

Harry looked around and glimpsed Snape a short way 
away, moving between the tables toward the doors 
into the entrance hall, still absorbed in his own 
examination paper. Round-shouldered yet angular, he 
walked in a twitchy manner that recalled a spider, his 
oily hair swinging about his face. 

A gang of chattering girls separated Snape from 
James and Sirius, and by planting himself in the 
midst of this group, Harry managed to keep Snape in 
sight while straining his ears to catch the voices of 
James and his friends. 

몮Did you like question ten, Moony?몯 asked Sirius as 
they emerged into the entrance hall. 

몮Loved it,몯 said Lupin briskly. 몮 몬Give five signs that 
identify the werewolf.몭 Excellent question.몯 

몮D몭you think you managed to get all the signs?몯 said 
James in tones of mock concern. 

몮Think I did,몯 said Lupin seriously, as they joined the 
crowd thronging around the front doors eager to get 
out into the sunlit grounds. 몮One: He몭s sitting on my 



| 820Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




chair. Two: He몭s wearing my clothes. Three: His 
name몭s Remus Lupin ...몯 



Wormtail was the only one who didn몭t laugh. 

몮I got the snout shape, the pupils of the eyes, and the 
tufted tail,몯 he said anxiously, 몮but I couldn몭t think 
what else 멪 몯 

몮How thick are you, Wormtail?몯 said James 
impatiently. 몮You run round with a werewolf once a 
month 멪 몯 

몮Keep your voice down,몯 implored Lupin. 

Harry looked anxiously behind him again. Snape 
remained close by, still buried in his examination 
questions; but this was Snape몭s memory, and Harry 
was sure that if Snape chose to wander off in a 
different direction once outside in the grounds, he, 
Harry, would not be able to follow James any farther. 
To his intense relief, however, when James and his 
three friends strode off down the lawn toward the 
lake, Snape followed, still poring over the paper and 
apparently with no fixed idea of where he was going. 
By jogging a little ahead of him, Harry managed to 
maintain a close watch on James and the others. 

몮Well, I thought that paper was a piece of cake,몯 he 
heard Sirius say. 몮I몭ll be surprised if I don몭t get 
Outstanding on it at least.몯 

몮Me too,몯 said James. He put his hand in his pocket 
and took out a struggling Golden Snitch. 

몮Where 몭d you get that?몯 

몮Nicked it,몯 said James casually. He started playing 
with the Snitch, allowing it to fly as much as a foot 

| 821Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




away and seizing it again; his reflexes were excellent. 
Wormtail watched him in awe. 

They stopped in the shade of the very same beech tree 
on the edge of the lake where Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione had spent a Sunday finishing their 
homework, and threw themselves down on the grass. 

Harry looked over his shoulder yet again and saw, to 
his delight, that Snape had settled himself on the 
grass in the dense shadows of a clump of bushes. He 
was as deeply immersed in the O.W.L. paper as ever, 
which left Harry free to sit down on the grass between 
the beech and the bushes and watch the foursome 
under the tree. 

The sunlight was dazzling on the smooth surface of 
the lake, on the bank of which the group of laughing 
girls who had just left the Great Hall were sitting with 
shoes and socks off, cooling their feet in the water. 

Lupin had pulled out a book and was reading. Sirius 
stared around at the students milling over the grass, 
looking rather haughty and bored, but very 
handsomely so. James was still playing with the 
Snitch, letting it zoom farther and farther away, 
almost escaping but always grabbed at the last 
second. Wormtail was watching him with his mouth 
open. Every time James made a particularly difficult 
catch, Wormtail gasped and applauded. After five 
minutes of this, Harry wondered why James didn몭t 
tell Wormtail to get a grip on himself, but James 
seemed to be enjoying the attention. Harry noticed his 
father had a habit of rumpling up his hair as though 
to make sure it did not get too tidy, and also that he 
kept looking over at the girls by the water몭s edge. 

몮Put that away, will you?몯 said Sirius finally, as 
James made a fine catch and Wormtail let out a 

| 822Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




cheer. 몮Before Wormtail wets himself from 
excitement.몯 

Wormtail turned slightly pink but James grinned. 

몮If it bothers you,몯 he said, stuffing the Snitch back in 
his pocket. Harry had the distinct impression that 
Sirius was the only one for whom James would have 
stopped showing off. 

몮I몭m bored,몯 said Sirius. 몮Wish it was full moon.몯 

몮You might,몯 said Lupin darkly from behind his book. 
몮We몭ve still got Transfiguration, if you몭re bored you 
could test me... Here.몯 He held out his book. 

Sirius snorted. 몮I don몭t need to look at that rubbish, I 
know it all.몯 

몮This몭ll liven you up, Padfoot,몯 said James quietly. 
몮Look who it is...몯 

Sirius몭s head turned. He had become very still, like a 
dog that has scented a rabbit. 

몮Excellent,몯 he said softly. 몮 Snivellus.몯 

Harry turned to see what Sirius was looking at. 

Snape was on his feet again, and was stowing the 
O.W.L. paper in his bag. As he emerged from the 
shadows of the bushes and set off across the grass, 
Sirius and James stood up. Lupin and Wormtail 
remained sitting: Lupin was still staring down at his 
book, though his eyes were not moving and a faint 
frown line had appeared between his eyebrows. 
Wormtail was looking from Sirius and James to 
Snape with a look of avid anticipation on his face. 



| 823Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮All right, Snivellus?몯 said James loudly. 



Snape reacted so fast it was as though he had been 
expecting an attack: Dropping his bag, he plunged his 
hand inside his robes, and his wand was halfway into 
the air when James shouted, 몮 ExpelliarmusV몭 

Snape 몭s wand flew twelve feet into the air and fell with 
a little thud in the grass behind him. Sirius let out a 
bark of laughter. 

몮 Impedimental 몯 he said, pointing his wand at Snape, 
who was knocked off his feet, halfway through a dive 
toward his own fallen wand. 

Students all around had turned to watch. Some of 
them had gotten to their feet and were edging nearer 
to watch. Some looked apprehensive, others 
entertained. 

Snape lay panting on the ground. James and Sirius 
advanced on him, wands up, James glancing over his 
shoulder at the girls at the water몭s edge as he went. 
Wormtail was on his feet now, watching hungrily, 
edging around Lupin to get a clearer view. 

몮How몭d the exam go, Snivelly?몯 said James. 

몮I was watching him, his nose was touching the 
parchment,몯 said Sirius viciously. 몮There몭ll be great 
grease marks all over it, they won몭t be able to read a 
word.몯 

Several people watching laughed; Snape was clearly 
unpopular. Wormtail sniggered shrilly. Snape was 
trying to get up, but the jinx was still operating on 
him; he was struggling, as though bound by invisible 
ropes. 

| 824Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮You 멪 wait,몯 he panted, staring up at James with an 
expression of purest loathing. 몮You 멪 wait...몯 

몮Wait for what?몯 said Sirius coolly. 몮What몭re you going 
to do, Snivelly, wipe your nose on us?몯 

Snape let out a stream of mixed swearwords and 
hexes, but his wand being ten feet away nothing 
happened. 

몮Wash out your mouth,몯 said James coldly. 

몮 Scourgifyl몯 

Pink soap bubbles streamed from Snape몭s mouth at 
once; the froth was covering his lips, making him gag, 
choking him 멪 

몮Leave him ALONE!몯 

James and Sirius looked around. James몭s free hand 
jumped to his hair again. 

It was one of the girls from the lake edge. She had 
thick, dark red hair that fell to her shoulders and 
startlingly green almond-shaped eyes 멪 Harry몭s eyes. 

Harry몭s mother ... 

몮All right, Evans?몯 said James, and the tone of his 
voice was suddenly pleasant, deeper, more mature. 

몮Leave him alone,몯 Lily repeated. She was looking at 
James with every sign of great dislike. 몮What몭s he 
done to you?몯 

몮Well,몯 said James, appearing to deliberate the point, 
몮it몭s more the fact that he exists, if you know what I 
mean...몯 



| 825Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Many of the surrounding watchers laughed, Sirius 
and Wormtail included, but Lupin, still apparently 
intent on his book, didn몭t, and neither did Lily. 

몮You think you몭re funny,몯 she said coldly. 몮But you몭re 
just an arrogant, bullying toerag, Potter. Leave him 
alone.몯 

몮I will if you go out with me, Evans,몯 said James 
quickly. 몮Go on ... Go out with me, and I몭ll never lay a 
wand on old Snivelly again.몯 

Behind him, the Impediment Jinx was wearing off. 
Snape was beginning to inch toward his fallen wand, 
spitting out soapsuds as he crawled. 

몮I wouldn몭t go out with you if it was a choice between 
you and the giant squid,몯 said Lily. 

몮Bad luck, Prongs,몯 said Sirius briskly, turning back 
to Snape. 몮OY!몯 

But too late; Snape had directed his wand straight at 
James; there was a flash of light and a gash appeared 
on the side of James몭s face, spattering his robes with 
blood. James whirled about; a second flash of light 
later, Snape was hanging upside down in the air, his 
robes falling over his head to reveal skinny, pallid legs 
and a pair of graying underpants. 

Many people in the small crowd watching cheered. 
Sirius, James, and Wormtail roared with laughter. 

Lily, whose furious expression had twitched for an 
instant as though she was going to smile, said, 몮Let 
him down!몯 

몮Certainly,몯 said James and he jerked his wand 
upward. Snape fell into a crumpled heap on the 

| 826Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




ground. Disentangling himself from his robes, he got 
quickly to his feet, wand up, but Sirius said, 

몮Petrificus Totalusl몯 and Snape keeled over again at 
once, rigid as a board. 

몮LEAVE HIM ALONE!몯 Lily shouted. She had her own 
wand out now. James and Sirius eyed it warily. 

몮Ah, Evans, don몭t make me hex you,몯 said James 
earnestly. 

몮Take the curse off him, then!몯 

James sighed deeply, then turned to Snape and 
muttered the countercurse. 

몮There you go,몯 he said, as Snape struggled to his feet 
again, 몮you몭re lucky Evans was here, Snivellus 멪 몯 

몮I don몭t need help from filthy little Mudbloods like 
her!몯 

Lily blinked. 몮Fine,몯 she said coolly. 몮I won몭t bother in 
future. And I몭d wash your pants if I were you, 
Snivellus.몯 

몮Apologize to Evans!몯 James roared at Snape, his 
wand pointed threateningly at him. 

몮I don몭t want you to make him apologize,몯 Lily 
shouted, rounding on James. 몮You몭re as bad as he 
is...몯 

몮What?몯 yelped James. 몮I몭d NEVER call you a 멪 you- 
know-what!몯 

몮Messing up your hair because you think it looks cool 
to look like you몭ve just got off your broomstick, 
showing off with that stupid Snitch, walking down 

| 827Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




corridors and hexing anyone who annoys you just 
because you can 멪 I몭m surprised your broomstick 
can get off the ground with that fat head on it. You 
make me SICK.몯 

She turned on her heel and hurried away. 

몮Evans!몯 James shouted after her, 몮Hey, EVANS!몯 

But she didn몭t look back. 

몮What is it with her?몯 said James, trying and failing to 
look as though this was a throwaway question of no 
real importance to him. 

몮Reading between the lines, I몭d say she thinks you몭re 
a bit conceited, mate,몯 said Sirius. 

몮Right,몯 said James, who looked furious now, 몮right 멪 



There was another flash of light, and Snape was once 
again hanging upside down in the air. 

몮Who wants to see me take off Snivelly몭s pants?몯 

But whether James really did take off Snape몭s pants, 
Harry never found out. A hand had closed tight over 
his upper arm, closed with a pincerlike grip. Wincing, 
Harry looked around to see who had hold of him, and 
saw, with a thrill of horror, a fully grown, adult-sized 
Snape standing right beside him, white with rage. 

몮Having fun?몯 

Harry felt himself rising into the air. The summer몭s 
day evaporated around him, he was floating upward 
through icy blackness, Snape몭s hand still tight upon 
his upper arm. Then, with a swooping feeling as 

| 828Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




though he had turned head over heels in midair, his 
feet hit the stone floor of Snape몭s dungeon, and he 
was standing again beside the Pensieve on Snape몭s 
desk in the shadowy, present-day Potions master몭s 
study. 

몮So,몯 said Snape, gripping Harry몭s arm so tightly 
Harry몭s hand was starting to feel numb. 몮So ... been 
enjoying yourself, Potter?몯 

몮N-no ...몯 said Harry, trying to free his arm. 

It was scary: Snape몭s lips were shaking, his face was 
white, his teeth were bared. 

몮Amusing man, your father, wasn몭t he?몯 said Snape, 
shaking Harry so hard that his glasses slipped down 
his nose. 

몮I 멪 didn몭t 멪 몯 

Snape threw Harry from him with all his might. Harry 
fell hard onto the dungeon floor. 

몮You will not tell anybody what you saw!몯 Snape 
bellowed. 

몮No,몯 said Harry, getting to his feet as far from Snape 
as he could. 몮No, of course I w 멪 몯 

몮Get out, get out, I don몭t want to see you in this office 
ever again!몯 

And as Harry hurtled toward the door, ajar of dead 
cockroaches exploded over his head. He wrenched the 
door open and flew away up the corridor, stopping 
only when he had put three floors between himself 
and Snape. There he leaned against the wall, panting, 
and rubbing his bruised arm. 

| 829Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He had no desire at all to return to Gryffindor Tower 
so early, nor to tell Ron and Hermione what he had 
just seen. What was making Harry feel so horrified 
and unhappy was not being shouted at or having jars 
thrown at him 멪 it was that he knew how it felt to be 
humiliated in the middle of a circle of onlookers, knew 
exactly how Snape had felt as his father had taunted 
him, and that judging from what he had just seen, his 
father had been every bit as arrogant as Snape had 
always told him. 



| 830Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 





CAREER ADVICE 

몮But why haven몭t you got Occlumency lessons 
anymore?몯 said Hermione, frowning. 

몮I몭ve told you,몯 Harry muttered. 몮Snape reckons I can 
carry on by myself now I몭ve got the basics...몯 

몮So you몭ve stopped having funny dreams?몯 said 
Hermione skeptically. 

몮Pretty much,몯 said Harry, not looking at her. 

몮Well, I don몭t think Snape should stop until you몭re 
absolutely sure you can control them!몯 said Hermione 
indignantly. 몮Harry, I think you should go back to 
him and ask 멪 몯 

몮No,몯 said Harry forcefully. 몮Just drop it, Hermione, 
okay?몯 

It was the first day of the Easter holidays and 
Hermione, as was her custom, had spent a large part 
of the day drawing up study schedules for the three of 

| 831Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



them. Harry and Ron had let her do it 멪 it was easier 
than arguing with her and, in any case, they might 
come in useful. 

Ron had been startled to discover that there were only 
six weeks left until their exams. 

몮How can that come as a shock?몯 Hermione 
demanded, as she tapped each little square on Ron몭s 
schedule with her wand so that it flashed a different 
color according to its subject. 

몮I dunno ...몯 said Ron, 몮there몭s been a lot going on...몯 

몮Well, there you are,몯 she said, handing him his 
schedule, 몮if you follow that you should do fine.몯 

Ron looked down it gloomily, but then brightened. 

몮You몭ve given me an evening off every week!몯 

몮That몭s for Quidditch practice,몯 said Hermione. 

The smile faded from Ron몭s face. 

몮What몭s the point?몯 he said. 몮We몭ve got about as much 
chance of winning the Quidditch Cup this year as 
Dad몭s got of becoming Minister of Magic...몯 

Hermione said nothing. She was looking at Harry, 
who was staring blankly at the opposite wall of the 
common room while Crookshanks pawed at his hand, 
trying to get his ears scratched. 

몮What몭s wrong, Harry?몯 

몮What?몯 he said quickly. 몮Nothing ...몯 



| 832Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He seized his copy of Defensive Magical Theory and 
pretended to be looking something up in the index. 
Crookshanks gave him up as a bad job and slunk 
away under Hermione몭s chair. 

몮I saw Cho earlier,몯 said Hermione tentatively, 몮and 
she looked really miserable too... Have you two had a 
row again?몯 

몮Wha 멪 oh yeah, we have,몯 said Harry, seizing 
gratefully on the excuse. 

몮What about?몯 

몮That sneak friend of hers, Marietta,몯 said Harry. 

몮Yeah, well, I don몭t blame you!몯 said Ron angrily, 
setting down his study schedule. 몮If it hadn몭t been for 
her ...몯 

Ron went into a rant about Marietta Edgecombe, 
which Harry found helpful. All he had to do was look 
angry, nod, and say 몮yeah몯 and 몮that몭s right몯 
whenever Ron drew breath, leaving his mind free to 
dwell, ever more miserably, on what he had seen in 
the Pensieve. 

He felt as though the memory of it was eating him 
from inside. He had been so sure that his parents had 
been wonderful people that he never had the slightest 
difficulty in disbelieving Snape몭s aspersions on his 
father몭s character. Hadn몭t people like Hagrid and 
Sirius told Harry how wonderful his father had been? 

( Yeah, well, look what Sirius was like himself, said a 
nagging voice inside Harry몭s head... He was as bad, 
wasn몭t he?) Yes, he had once overheard Professor 
McGonagall saying that his father and Sirius had 
been troublemakers at school, but she had described 
them as forerunners of the Weasley twins, and Harry 
| 833Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




could not imagine Fred and George dangling someone 
upside down for the fun of it ... not unless they really 
loathed them . . . Perhaps Malfoy, or somebody who 
really deserved it . . . 

Harry tried to make a case for Snape having deserved 
what he had suffered at James몭s hands 멪 but hadn몭t 
Lily asked, 몮What몭s he done to you?몯 And hadn몭t 
James replied, 몮It몭s more the fact that he exists, if you 
know what I mean?몯 Hadn몭t James started it all 
simply because Sirius said he was bored? Harry 
remembered Lupin saying back in Grimmauld Place 
that Dumbledore had made him prefect in the hope 
that he would be able to exercise some control over 
James and Sirius... But in the Pensieve, he had sat 
there and let it all happen... 

Harry reminded himself that Lily had intervened; his 
mother had been decent, yet the memory of the look 
on her face as she had shouted at James disturbed 
him quite as much as anything else. She had clearly 
loathed James and Harry simply could not 
understand how they could have ended up married. 
Once or twice he even wondered whether James had 
forced her into it... 

For nearly five years the thought of his father had 
been a source of comfort, of inspiration. Whenever 
someone had told him he was like James he had 
glowed with pride inside. And now ... now he felt cold 
and miserable at the thought of him. 

The weather grew breezier, brighter, and warmer as 
the holidays passed, but Harry was stuck with the 
rest of the fifth and seventh years, who were all 
trapped inside, traipsing back and forth to the library. 
Harry pretended that his bad mood had no other 
cause but the approaching exams, and as his fellow 



| 834Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Gryffindors were sick of studying themselves, his 
excuse went unchallenged. 

몮Harry, I몭m talking to you, can you hear me?몯 

몮Huh?몯 

He looked around. Ginny Weasley, looking very 
windswept, had joined him at the library table where 
he had been sitting alone. It was late on Sunday 
evening; Hermione had gone back to Gryffindor Tower 
to review Ancient Runes; Ron had Quidditch practice. 

몮Oh hi,몯 said Harry, pulling his books back toward 
him. 몮How come you몭re not at practice?몯 

몮It몭s over,몯 said Ginny. 몮Ron had to take Jack Sloper 
up to the hospital wing.몯 

몮Why?몯 

몮Well, we몭re not sure, but we think he knocked himself 
out with his own bat.몯 She sighed heavily. 몮Anyway ... 
a package just arrived, it몭s only just got through 
Umbridge몭s new screening process...몯 

She hoisted a box wrapped in brown paper onto the 
table; it had clearly been unwrapped and carelessly 
rewrapped, and there was a scribbled note across it in 
red ink, reading INSPECTED AND PASSED BY THE 
HOGWARTS HIGH INQUISITOR. 

몮It몭s Easter eggs from Mum,몯 said Ginny. 몮There몭s one 
for you... There you go...몯 

She handed him a handsome chocolate egg decorated 
with small, iced Snitches and, according to the 
packaging, containing a bag of Fizzing Whizbees. 



| 835Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry looked at it for a moment, then, to his horror, 
felt a hard lump rise in his throat. 



몮Are you okay, Harry?몯 asked Ginny quietly. 

몮Yeah, I몭m fine,몯 said Harry gruffly. The lump in his 
throat was painful. He did not understand why an 
Easter egg should have made him feel like this. 

몮You seem really down lately,몯 Ginny persisted. 몮You 
know, I몭m sure if you just talked to Cho ...몯 

몮It몭s not Cho I want to talk to,몯 said Harry brusquely. 

몮Who is it, then?몯 asked Ginny. 



He glanced around to make quite sure that nobody 
was listening; Madam Pince was several shelves away, 
stamping out a pile of books for a frantic-looking 
Hannah Abbott. 

몮I wish I could talk to Sirius,몯 he muttered. 몮But I 
know I can몭t.몯 

More to give himself something to do than because he 
really wanted any, Harry unwrapped his Easter egg, 
broke off a large bit, and put it into his mouth. 

몮Well,몯 said Ginny slowly, helping herself to a bit of 
egg too, 몮if you really want to talk to Sirius, I expect 
we could think of a way to do it...몯 

몮Come on,몯 said Harry hopelessly. 몮With Umbridge 
policing the fires and reading all our mail?몯 

몮The thing about growing up with Fred and George,몯 
said Ginny thoughtfully, 몮is that you sort of start 

| 836Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




thinking anything몭s possible if you몭ve got enough 
nerve.몯 

Harry looked at her. Perhaps it was the effect of the 
chocolate 멪 Lupin had always advised eating some 
after encounters with dementors 멪 or simply because 
he had finally spoken aloud the wish that had been 
burning inside him for a week, but he felt a bit more 
hopeful... 

몮WHAT DO YOU THINK YOU ARE DOING?몯 

몮Oh damn,몯 whispered Ginny, jumping to her feet. 몮I 
forgot멪몯 

Madam Pince was swooping down upon them, her 
shriveled face contorted with rage. 

몮 Chocolate in the library\몯 she screamed. 몮Out 멪 out 
멪 OUT!몯 

And whipping out her wand, she caused Harry몭s 
books, bag, and ink bottle to chase him and Ginny 
from the library, whacking them repeatedly over the 
head as they ran. 

As though to underline the importance of their 
upcoming examinations, a batch of pamphlets, 
leaflets, and notices concerning various Wizarding 
careers appeared on the tables in Gryffindor Tower 
shortly before the end of the holidays, along with yet 
another notice on the board, which read: 

CAREER ADVICE 

All fifth years will be required to attend a short 
meeting with their Head of House during the first 
week of the Summer term, in which they will be given 



| 837Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




the opportunity to discuss their future careers. Times 
of individual appointments are listed below. 



Harry looked down the list and found that he was 
expected in Professor McGonagall몭s office at half-past 
two on Monday, which would mean missing most of 
Divination. He and the other fifth years spent a 
considerable part of the final weekend of the Easter 
break reading all the career information that had 
been left there for their perusal. 

몮Well, I don몭t fancy Healing,몯 said Ron on the last 
evening of the holidays. He was immersed in a leaflet 
that carried the crossed bone-and-wand emblem of 
St. Mungo몭s on its front. 몮It says here you need at 
least an E at N.E.W.T. level in Potions, Herbology, 
Transfiguration, Charms, and Defense Against the 
Dark Arts. I mean ... blimey... Don몭t want much, do 
they?몯 

몮Well, it몭s a very responsible job, isn몭t it?몯 said 
Hermione absently. She was poring over a bright 
pink-and-orange leaflet that was headed SO YOU 
THINK YOU몭D LIKE TO WORK IN MUGGLE 
RELATIONS? 몮You don몭t seem to need many 
qualifications to liaise with Muggles... All they want is 
an O.W.L. in Muggle Studies... 몬Much more important 
is your enthusiasm, patience, and a good sense offunV 



몮You몭d need more than a good sense of fun to liaise 
with my uncle,몯 said Harry darkly. 몮Good sense of 
when to duck, more like ...몯 He was halfway through 
a pamphlet on Wizard banking. 몮Listen to this: 

몮 몬Are you seeking a challenging career involving travel, 
adventure, and substantial, danger-related treasure 
bonuses? Then consider a position with Gringotts 
Wizarding Bank, who are currently recruiting Curse- 

P a g e | 838Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Breakers for thrilling opportunities abroad...몭 They 
want Arithmancy, though... You could do it, 
Hermione!몯 

몮I don몭t much fancy banking,몯 said Hermione vaguely, 
now immersed in HAVE YOU GOT WHAT IT TAKES 
TO TRAIN SECURITY TROLLS? 

몮Hey,몯 said a voice in Harry몭s ear. He looked around; 
Fred and George had come to join them. 몮Ginny몭s had 
a word with us about you,몯 said Fred, stretching out 
his legs on the table in front of them and causing 
several booklets on careers with the Ministry of Magic 
to slide off onto the floor. 몮She says you need to talk 
to Sirius?몯 

몮What?몯 said Hermione sharply, freezing with her 
hand halfway toward picking up MAKE A BANG AT 
THE DEPARTMENT OF MAGICAL ACCIDENTS AND 
CATASTROPHES. 

몮Yeah ...몯 said Harry, trying to sound casual, 몮yeah, I 
thought I몭d like 멪 몯 

몮Don몭t be so ridiculous,몯 said Hermione, straightening 
up and looking at him as though she could not 
believe her eyes. 몮With Umbridge groping around in 
the fires and frisking all the owls?몯 

몮Well, we think we can find a way around that,몯 said 
George, stretching and smiling. 몮It몭s a simple matter 
of causing a diversion. Now, you might have noticed 
that we have been rather quiet on the mayhem front 
during the Easter holidays?몯 

몮What was the point, we asked ourselves, of 
disrupting leisure time?몯 continued Fred. 몮No point at 
all, we answered ourselves. And of course, we몭d have 



| 839Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




messed up people몭s studying too, which would be the 
very last thing we몭d want to do.몯 

He gave Hermione a sanctimonious little nod. She 
looked rather taken aback by this thoughtfulness. 

몮But it몭s business as usual from tomorrow,몯 Fred 
continued briskly. 몮And if we몭re going to be causing a 
bit of uproar, why not do it so that Harry can have his 
chat with Sirius?몯 

몮Yes, but still,몯 said Hermione with an air of 
explaining something very simple to somebody very 
obtuse, 몮even if you do cause a diversion, how is 
Harry supposed to talk to him?몯 

몮Umbridge몭s office,몯 said Harry quietly. 

He had been thinking about it for a fortnight and 
could think of no alternative; Umbridge herself had 
told him that the only fire that was not being watched 
was her own. 

몮Are 멪 you 멪 insane?몯 said Hermione in a hushed 
voice. 

Ron had lowered his leaflet on jobs in the cultivated 
fungus trade and was watching the conversation 
warily. 

몮I don몭t think so,몯 said Harry, shrugging. 

몮And how are you going to get in there in the first 
place?몯 

Harry was ready for this question. 

몮Sirius몭s knife,몯 he said. 



| 840Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Excuse me?몯 



몮Christmas before last Sirius gave me a knife that몭ll 
open any lock,몯 said Harry. 몮So even if she몭s 
bewitched the door so Alohomora won몭t work, which I 
bet she has 멪 몯 

몮What do you think about this?몯 Hermione demanded 
of Ron, and Harry was reminded irresistibly of Mrs. 
Weasley appealing to her husband during Harry몭s first 
dinner in Grimmauld Place. 

몮I dunno,몯 said Ron, looking alarmed at being asked 
to give an opinion. 몮If Harry wants to do it, it몭s up to 
him, isn몭t it?몯 

몮Spoken like a true friend and Weasley,몯 said Fred, 
clapping Ron hard on the back. 몮Right, then. We몭re 
thinking of doing it tomorrow, just after lessons, 
because it should cause maximum impact if 
everybody몭s in the corridors 멪 Harry, we몭ll set it off in 
the east wing somewhere, draw her right away from 
her own office 멪 I reckon we should be able to 
guarantee you, what, twenty minutes?몯 he said, 
looking at George. 

몮Easy,몯 said George. 

몮What sort of diversion is it?몯 asked Ron. 

몮You몭ll see, little bro,몯 said Fred, as he and George got 
up again. 몮At least, you will if you trot along to 
Gregory the Smarmy몭s corridor round about five 
o몭clock tomorrow.몯 

Harry awoke very early the next day, feeling almost as 
anxious as he had done on the morning of his hearing 
at the Ministry of Magic. It was not only the prospect 
of breaking into Umbridge몭s office and using her fire 

| 841Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




to speak to Sirius that was making him feel nervous, 
though that was certainly bad enough 멪 today also 
happened to be the first time he would be in close 
proximity with Snape since Snape had thrown him 
out of his office, as they had Potions that day. 

After lying in bed for a while thinking about the day 
ahead, Harry got up very quietly and moved across to 
the window beside Neville몭s bed, staring out on a truly 
glorious morning. The sky was a clear, misty, 
opalescent blue. Directly ahead of him, Harry could 
see the towering beech tree below which his father 
had once tormented Snape. He was not sure what 
Sirius could possibly say to him that would make up 
for what he had seen in the Pensieve, but he was 
desperate to hear Sirius몭s own account of what had 
happened, to know of any mitigating factors there 
might have been, any excuse at all for his father몭s 
behavior. . . 

Something caught Harry몭s attention: movement on 
the edge of the Forbidden Forest. Harry squinted into 
the sun and saw Hagrid emerging from between the 
trees. He seemed to be limping. As Harry watched, 
Hagrid staggered to the door of his cabin and 
disappeared inside it. Harry watched the cabin for 
several minutes. Hagrid did not emerge again, but 
smoke furled from the chimney, so Hagrid could not 
be so badly injured that he was unequal to stoking 
the fire... 

Harry turned away from the window, headed back to 
his trunk, and started to dress. 

With the prospect of forcing entry into Umbridge몭s 
office ahead, Harry had never expected the day to be a 
restful one, but he had not reckoned on Hermione몭s 
almost continual attempts to dissuade him from what 
he was planning to do at five o몭clock. For the first time 
| 842Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




ever, she was at least as inattentive to Professor 
Binns in History of Magic as Harry and Ron were, 
keeping up a stream of whispered admonitions that 
Harry tried very hard to ignore. 

"... and if she does catch you there, apart from being 
expelled, shell be able to guess you몭ve been talking to 
Snuffles and this time I expect she몭ll force you to 
drink Veritaserum and answer her questions...몯 

몮Hermione,몯 said Ron in a low and indignant voice, 
몮are you going to stop telling Harry off and listen to 
Binns, or am I going to have to take notes instead?몯 

몮You take notes for a change, it won몭t kill you!몯 

By the time they reached the dungeons, neither Harry 
nor Ron was speaking to Hermione any longer. 
Undeterred, she took advantage of their silence to 
maintain an uninterrupted flow of dire warnings, all 
uttered under her breath in a vehement hiss that 
caused Seamus to waste five whole minutes checking 
his cauldron for leaks. 

Snape, meanwhile, seemed to have decided to act as 
though Harry were invisible. Harry was, of course, 
well used to this tactic, as it was one of Uncle 
Vernon몭s favorites, and on the whole was grateful he 
had to suffer nothing worse. In fact, compared to 
what he usually had to endure from Snape in the way 
of taunts and snide remarks, he found the new 
approach something of an improvement and was 
pleased to find that when left well alone, he was able 
to concoct an Invigoration Draught quite easily. At the 
end of the lesson he scooped some of the potion into a 
flask, corked it, and took it up to Snape몭s desk for 
marking, feeling that he might at last have scraped an 
E. 



| 843Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He had just turned away when he heard a smashing 
noise; Malfoy gave a gleeful yell of laughter. Harry 
whipped around again. His potion sample lay in 
pieces on the floor, and Snape was watching him with 
a look of gloating pleasure. 

몮Whoops,몯 he said softly. 몮Another zero, then, Potter 



Harry was too incensed to speak. He strode back to 
his cauldron, intending to fill another flask and force 
Snape to mark it, but saw to his horror that the rest 
of the contents had vanished. 

몮I몭m sorry!몯 said Hermione with her hands over her 
mouth. 몮I몭m really sorry, Harry, I thought you몭d 
finished, so I cleared up!몯 

Harry could not bring himself to answer. When the 
bell rang he hurried out of the dungeon without a 
backward glance and made sure that he found 
himself a seat between Neville and Seamus for lunch 
so that Hermione could not start nagging him about 
using Umbridge몭s office again. 

He was in such a bad mood by the time that he got to 
Divination that he had quite forgotten his career 
appointment with Professor McGonagall, 
remembering only when Ron asked him why he 
wasn몭t in her office. He hurtled back upstairs and 
arrived out of breath, only a few minutes late. 

몮Sorry, Professor,몯 he panted, as he closed the door. 몮I 
forgot...몯 

몮No matter, Potter,몯 she said briskly, but as she 
spoke, somebody else sniffed from the corner. Harry 
looked around. 



| 844Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Professor Umbridge was sitting there, a clipboard on 
her knee, a fussy little pie-frill around her neck, and a 
small, horribly smug smile on her face. 

몮Sit down, Potter,몯 said Professor McGonagall tersely. 
Her hands shook slightly as she shuffled the many 
pamphlets littering her desk. 

Harry sat down with his back to Umbridge and did 
his best to pretend he could not hear the scratching 
of her quill on her clipboard. 

몮Well, Potter, this meeting is to talk over any career 
ideas you might have, and to help you decide which 
subjects you should continue into sixth and seventh 
years,몯 said Professor McGonagall. 몮Have you had any 
thoughts about what you would like to do after you 
leave Hogwarts?몯 

몮Er,몯 said Harry. 

He was finding the scratching noise from behind him 
very distracting. 

몮Yes?몯 Professor McGonagall prompted Harry. 

몮Well, I thought of, maybe, being an Auror,몯 Harry 
mumbled. 

몮You몭d need top grades for that,몯 said Professor 
McGonagall, extracting a small, dark leaflet from 
under the mass on her desk and opening it. 몮They ask 
for a minimum of five N.E.W.T.s, and nothing under 
몬Exceeds Expectations몭 grade, I see. Then you would 
be required to undergo a stringent series of character 
and aptitude tests at the Auror office. It몭s a difficult 
career path, Potter; they only take the best. In fact, I 
don몭t think anybody has been taken on in the last 
three years.몯 

| 845Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




At this moment Professor Umbridge gave a very tiny 
cough, as though she was trying to see how quietly 
she could do it. Professor McGonagall ignored her. 

몮You몭ll want to know which subjects you ought to 
take, I suppose?몯 she went on, talking a little more 
loudly than before. 

몮Yes,몯 said Harry. 몮Defense Against the Dark Arts, I 
suppose?몯 

몮Naturally,몯 said Professor McGonagall crisply. 몮I 
would also advise 멪 몯 

Professor Umbridge gave another cough, a little more 
audible this time. Professor McGonagall closed her 
eyes for a moment, opened them again, and 
continued as though nothing had happened. 

몮I would also advise Transfiguration, because Aurors 
frequently need to Transfigure or Untransfigure in 
their work. And I ought to tell you now, Potter, that I 
do not accept students into my N.E.W.T. classes 
unless they have achieved 몬Exceeds Expectations몭 or 
higher at Ordinary Wizarding Level. I몭d say you몭re 
averaging 몬Acceptable몭 at the moment, so you몭ll need 
to put in some good hard work before the exams to 
stand a chance of continuing. Then you ought to do 
Charms, always useful, and Potions. Yes, Potter, 
Potions,몯 she added, with the merest flicker of a smile. 
몮Poisons and antidotes are essential study for Aurors. 
And I must tell you that Professor Snape absolutely 
refuses to take students who get anything other than 
몬Outstanding몭 in their O.W.L.s, so 멪 몯 

Professor Umbridge gave her most pronounced cough 
yet. 



| 846Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮May I offer you a cough drop, Dolores?몯 Professor 
McGonagall asked curtly, without looking at Professor 
Umbridge. 

몮Oh no, thank you very much,몯 said Umbridge, with 
that simpering laugh Harry hated so much. 몮I just 
wondered whether I could make the teensiest 
interruption, Minerva?몯 

몮I daresay you 11 find you can,몯 said Professor 
McGonagall through tightly gritted teeth. 

몮I was just wondering whether Mr. Potter has quite 
the temperament for an Auror?몯 said Professor 
Umbridge sweetly. 

몮Were you?몯 said Professor McGonagall haughtily. 
몮Well, Potter,몯 she continued, as though there had 
been no interruption, 몮if you are serious in this 
ambition, I would advise you to concentrate hard on 
bringing your Transfiguration and Potions up to 
scratch. I see Professor Flitwick has graded you 
between Acceptable몭 and 몬Exceeds Expectations몭 for 
the last two years, so your Charm work seems 
satisfactory; as for Defense Against the Dark Arts, 
your marks have been generally high, Professor Lupin 
in particular thought you 멪 are you quite sure you 
wouldn몭t like a cough drop, Dolores?몯 

몮Oh, no need, thank you, Minerva,몯 simpered 
Professor Umbridge, who had just coughed her 
loudest yet. 몮I was just concerned that you might not 
have Harry몭s most recent Defense Against the Dark 
Arts marks in front of you. I몭m quite sure I slipped in 
a note ...몯 

몮What, this thing?몯 said Professor McGonagall in a 
tone of revulsion, as she pulled a sheet of pink 
parchment from between the leaves of Harry몭s folder. 

| 847Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




She glanced down it, her eyebrows slightly raised, 
then placed it back into the folder without comment. 

몮Yes, as I was saying, Potter, Professor Lupin thought 
you showed a pronounced aptitude for the subject, 
and obviously for an Auror 멪 몯 

몮Did you not understand my note, Minerva?몯 asked 
Professor Umbridge in honeyed tones, quite forgetting 
to cough. 

몮Of course I understood it,몯 said Professor 
McGonagall, her teeth clenched so tightly that the 
words came out a little muffled. 

몮Well, then, I am confused... I몭m afraid I don몭t quite 
understand how you can give Mr. Potter false hope 
that 멪 몯 

몮False hope?몯 repeated Professor McGonagall, still 
refusing to look round at Professor Umbridge. 몮He has 
achieved high marks in all his Defense Against the 
Dark Arts tests 멪 몯 

몮I몭m terribly sorry to have to contradict you, Minerva, 
but as you will see from my note, Harry has been 
achieving very poor results in his classes with me 멪 몯 

몮I should have made my meaning plainer,몯 said 
Professor McGonagall, turning at last to look 
Umbridge directly in the eyes. 몮He has achieved high 
marks in all Defense Against the Dark Arts tests set 
by a competent teacher.몯 

Professor Umbridge몭s smile vanished as suddenly as a 
lightbulb blowing. She sat back in her chair, turned a 
sheet on her clipboard, and began scribbling very fast 
indeed, her bulging eyes rolling from side to side. 



| 848Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Professor McGonagall turned back to Harry, her thin 
nostrils flared, her eyes burning. 

몮Any questions, Potter?몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Harry. 몮What sort of character and 
aptitude tests do the Ministry do on you, if you get 
enough N.E.W.T.s?몯 

몮Well, you몭ll need to demonstrate the ability to react 
well to pressure and so forth,몯 said Professor 
McGonagall, 몮perseverance and dedication, because 
Auror training takes a further three years, not to 
mention very high skills in practical defense. It will 
mean a lot more study even after you몭ve left school, so 
unless you몭re prepared to 멪 몯 

몮I think you몭ll also find,몯 said Umbridge, her voice 
very cold now, 몮that the Ministry looks into the 
records of those applying to be Aurors. Their criminal 
records.몯 

몮 멪 unless you몭re prepared to take even more exams 
after Hogwarts, you should really look at another 멪 몯 

몮 멪 which means that this boy has as much chance of 
becoming an Auror as Dumbledore has of ever 
returning to this school.몯 

몮A very good chance, then,몯 said Professor 
McGonagall. 

몮Potter has a criminal record,몯 said Umbridge loudly. 

몮Potter has been cleared of all charges,몯 said Professor 
McGonagall, even more loudly. 

Professor Umbridge stood up. She was so short that 
this did not make a great deal of difference, but her 

| 849Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




fussy, simpering demeanor had given place to a hard 
fury that made her broad, flabby face look oddly 
sinister. 

몮Potter has no chance whatsoever of becoming an 
Auror!몯 

Professor McGonagall got to her feet too, and in her 
case this was a much more impressive move. She 
towered over Professor Umbridge. 

몮Potter,몯 she said in ringing tones, 몮I will assist you to 
become an Auror if it is the last thing I do! If I have to 
coach you nightly I will make sure you achieve the 
required results!몯 

몮The Minister of Magic will never employ Harry 
Potter!몯 said Umbridge, her voice rising furiously. 

몮There may well be a new Minister of Magic by the 
time Potter is ready to join!몯 shouted Professor 
McGonagall. 

몮Aha!몯 shrieked Professor Umbridge, pointing a 
stubby finger at McGonagall. 몮Yes! Yes, yes, yes! Of 
course! That몭s what you want, isn몭t it, Minerva 
McGonagall? You want Cornelius Fudge replaced by 
Albus Dumbledore! You think you몭ll be where I am, 
don몭t you, Senior Undersecretary to the Minister and 
headmistress to boot!몯 

몮You are raving,몯 said Professor McGonagall, superbly 
disdainful. 몮Potter, that concludes our career 
consultation.몯 

Harry swung his bag over his shoulder and hurried 
out of the room, not daring to look at Umbridge. He 
could hear her and Professor McGonagall continuing 



| 850Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




to shout at each other all the way back along the 
corridor. 

Professor Umbridge was still breathing as though she 
had just run a race when she strode into their 
Defense Against the Dark Arts lesson that afternoon. 

몮I hope you몭ve thought better of what you were 
planning to do, Harry,몯 Hermione whispered, the 
moment they had opened their books to chapter 
thirty- four (몮Non-Retaliation and Negotiation몯). 
몮Umbridge looks like she몭s in a really bad mood 
already...몯 

Every now and then Umbridge shot glowering looks at 
Harry, who kept his head down, staring at Defensive 
Magical Theory, his eyes unfocused, thinking... 

He could just imagine Professor McGonagall몭s 
reaction if he were caught trespassing in Professor 
Umbridge몭s office mere hours after she had vouched 
for him. . . There was nothing to stop him simply going 
back to Gryffindor Tower and hoping that sometime 
during the next summer holiday he would have a 
chance to ask Sirius about the scene he had 
witnessed in the Pensieve... Nothing, except that the 
thought of taking this sensible course of action made 
him feel as though a lead weight had dropped into his 
stomach... And then there was the matter of Fred and 
George, whose diversion was already planned, not to 
mention the knife Sirius had given him, which was 
currently residing in his schoolbag along with his 
father몭s old Invisibility Cloak... 

But the fact remained that if he were caught . . . 

몮Dumbledore sacrificed himself to keep you in school, 
Harry!몯 whispered Hermione, raising her book to hide 



| 851Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




her face from Umbridge. 몮And if you get thrown out 
today it will all have been for nothing!몯 



He could abandon the plan and simply learn to live 
with the memory of what his father had done on a 
summer몭s day more than twenty years ago... 

And then he remembered Sirius in the fire upstairs in 
the Gryffindor common room... 몭몭You 몭re less like your 
father than I thought... The risk would몭ve been what 
made it fun for James...몯 

But did he want to be like his father anymore? 

몮Harry, don몭t do it, please don몭t do it!몯 Hermione said 
in anguished tones as the bell rang at the end of the 
class. 

He did not answer; he did not know what to do. Ron 
seemed determined to give neither his opinion nor his 
advice. He would not look at Harry, though when 
Hermione opened her mouth to try dissuading Harry 
some more, he said in a low voice, 몮Give it a rest, 
okay? He can make up his own mind.몯 

Harry몭s heart beat very fast as he left the classroom. 
He was halfway along the corridor outside when he 
heard the unmistakable sounds of a diversion going 
off in the distance. There were screams and yells 
reverberating from somewhere above them. People 
exiting the classrooms all around Harry were stopping 
in their tracks and looking up at the ceiling fearfully 



Then Umbridge came pelting out of her classroom as 
fast as her short legs would carry her. Pulling out her 
wand, she hurried off in the opposite direction: It was 
now or never. 



| 852Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Harry 멪 please!몯 said Hermione weakly. 



But he had made up his mind 멪 hitching his bag 
more securely onto his shoulder he set off at a run, 
weaving in and out of students now hurrying in the 
opposite direction, off to see what all the fuss was 
about in the east wing... 

Harry reached the corridor where Umbridge몭s office 
was situated and found it deserted. Dashing behind a 
large suit of armor whose helmet creaked around to 
watch him, he pulled open his bag, seized Sirius몭s 
knife, and donned the Invisibility Cloak. He then 
crept slowly and carefully back out from behind the 
suit of armor and along the corridor until he reached 
Umbridge몭s door. 

He inserted the blade of the magical knife into the 
crack around it and moved it gently up and down, 
then withdrew it. There was a tiny click, and the door 
swung open. He ducked inside the office, closed the 
door quickly behind him, and looked around. 

It was empty; nothing was moving except the horrible 
kittens on the plates continuing to frolic on the wall 
above the confiscated broomsticks. 

Harry pulled off his cloak and, striding over to the 
fireplace, found what he was looking for within 
seconds: a small box containing glittering Floo 
powder. 

He crouched down in front of the empty grate, his 
hands shaking. He had never done this before, 
though he thought he knew how it must work. 
Sticking his head into the fireplace, he took a large 
pinch of powder and dropped it onto the logs stacked 
neatly beneath him. They exploded at once into 
emerald-green flames. 

| 853Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Number twelve, Grimmauld Place!몯 Harry said loudly 
and clearly. 



It was one of the most curious sensations he had ever 
experienced; he had traveled by Floo powder before, of 
course, but then it had been his entire body that had 
spun around and around in the flames through the 
network of Wizarding fireplaces that stretched over 
the country: This time, his knees remained firm upon 
the cold floor of Umbridge몭s office, and only his head 
hurtled through the emerald fire... 

And then, abruptly as it had begun, the spinning 
stopped. Feeling rather sick and as though he was 
wearing an exceptionally hot muffler around his head, 
Harry opened his eyes to find that he was looking up 
out of the kitchen fireplace at the long, wooden table, 
where a man sat poring over a piece of parchment. 

몮Sirius?몯 

The man jumped and looked around. It was not 
Sirius, but Lupin. 

몮Harry!몯 he said, looking thoroughly shocked. 몮What 
are you 멪 what몭s happened, is everything all right?몯 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry. 몮I just wondered 멪 I mean, I just 
fancied a 멪 a chat with Sirius.몯 

몮I몭ll call him,몯 said Lupin, getting to his feet, still 
looking perplexed. 몮He went upstairs to look for 
Kreacher, he seems to be hiding in the attic again...몯 

And Harry saw Lupin hurry out of the kitchen. Now 
he was left with nothing to look at but the chair and 
table legs. He wondered why Sirius had never 
mentioned how very uncomfortable it was to speak 
out of the fire 멪 his knees were already objecting 
| 854Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




painfully to their prolonged contact with Umbridge몭s 
hard stone floor. 



Lupin returned with Sirius at his heels moments 
later. 

몮What is it?몯 said Sirius urgently, sweeping his long 
dark hair out of his eyes and dropping to the ground 
in front of the fire, so that he and Harry were on a 
level; Lupin knelt down too, looking very concerned. 
몮Are you all right? Do you need help?몯 

몮No,몯 said Harry, 몮it몭s nothing like that... I just wanted 
to talk ... about my dad...몯 

They exchanged a look of great surprise, but Harry 
did not have time to feel awkward or embarrassed; his 
knees were becoming sorer by the second, and he 
guessed that five minutes had already passed from 
the start of the diversion 멪 George had only 
guaranteed him twenty. He therefore plunged 
immediately into the story of what he had seen in the 
Pensieve. 

When he had finished, neither Sirius nor Lupin spoke 
for a moment. Then Lupin said quietly, 몮I wouldn몭t 
like you to judge your father on what you saw there, 
Harry. He was only fifteen 멪 몯 

몮I몭m fifteen!몯 said Harry heatedly. 

몮Look, Harry,몯 said Sirius placatingly, 몮James and 
Snape hated each other from the moment they set 
eyes on each other, it was just one of those things, 
you can understand that, can몭t you? I think James 
was everything Snape wanted to be 멪 he was 
popular, he was good at Quidditch, good at pretty 
much everything. And Snape was just this little 
oddball who was up to his eyes in the Dark Arts and 
| 855Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




James 멪 whatever else he may have appeared to you, 
Harry 멪 always hated the Dark Arts.몯 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry, 몮but he just attacked Snape for no 
good reason, just because 멪 well, just because you 
said you were bored,몯 he finished with a slightly 
apologetic note in his voice. 

몮I몭m not proud of it,몯 said Sirius quickly. 

Lupin looked sideways at Sirius and then said, 몮Look, 
Harry, what you몭ve got to understand is that your 
father and Sirius were the best in the school at 
whatever they did 멪 everyone thought they were the 
height of cool 멪 if they sometimes got a bit carried 
away 멪 몯 

몮If we were sometimes arrogant little berks, you 
mean,몯 said Sirius. 

Lupin smiled. 

몮He kept messing up his hair,몯 said Harry in a pained 
voice. 

Sirius and Lupin laughed. 

몮I몭d forgotten he used to do that,몯 said Sirius 
affectionately. 

몮Was he playing with the Snitch?몯 said Lupin eagerly. 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry, watching uncomprehendingly as 
Sirius and Lupin beamed reminiscently. 몮Well ... I 
thought he was a bit of an idiot.몯 

몮Of course he was a bit of an idiot!몯 said Sirius 
bracingly. 몮We were all idiots! Well 멪 not Moony so 



| 856Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




much,몯 he said fairly, looking at Lupin, but Lupin 
shook his head. 

몮Did I ever tell you to lay off Snape?몯 he said. 몮Did I 
ever have the guts to tell you I thought you were out 
of order?몯 

몮Yeah, well,몯 said Sirius, 몮you made us feel ashamed 
of ourselves sometimes... That was something...몯 

몮And,몯 said Harry doggedly, determined to say 
everything that was on his mind now he was here, 몮he 
kept looking over at the girls by the lake, hoping they 
were watching him!몯 

몮Oh, well, he always made a fool of himself whenever 
Lily was around,몯 said Sirius, shrugging. 몮He couldn몭t 
stop himself showing off whenever he got near her.몯 

몮How come she married him?몯 Harry asked miserably. 
몮She hated him!몯 

몮Nah, she didn몭t,몯 said Sirius. 

몮She started going out with him in seventh year,몯 said 
Lupin. 

몮Once James had deflated his head a bit,몯 said Sirius. 

몮And stopped hexing people just for the fun of it,몯 said 
Lupin. 

몮Even Snape?몯 said Harry. 

몮Well,몯 said Lupin slowly, 몮Snape was a special case. I 
mean, he never lost an opportunity to curse James, 
so you couldn몭t really expect James to take that lying 
down, could you?몯 



| 857Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮And my mum was okay with that?몯 

몮She didn몭t know too much about it, to tell you the 
truth,몯 said Sirius. 몮I mean, James didn몭t take Snape 
on dates with her and jinx him in front of her, did 
he?몯 

Sirius frowned at Harry, who was still looking 
unconvinced. 

몮Look,몯 he said, 몮your father was the best friend I ever 
had, and he was a good person. A lot of people are 
idiots at the age of fifteen. He grew out of it.몯 

몮Yeah, okay,몯 said Harry heavily. 몮I just never thought 
I몭d feel sorry for Snape.몯 

몮Now you mention it,몯 said Lupin, a faint crease 
between his eyebrows, 몮how did Snape react when he 
found you몭d seen all this?몯 

몮He told me he몭d never teach me Occlumency again,몯 
said Harry indifferently, 몮like that몭s a big disappoint 



몮He WHAT?몯 shouted Sirius, causing Harry to jump 
and inhale a mouthful of ashes. 

몮Are you serious, Harry?몯 said Lupin quickly. 몮He몭s 
stopped giving you lessons?몯 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry, surprised at what he considered a 
great overreaction. 몮But it몭s okay, I don몭t care, it몭s a 
bit of a relief to tell you the 멪 몯 

몮I몭m coming up there to have a word with Snape!몯 said 
Sirius forcefully and he actually made to stand up, 
but Lupin wrenched him back down again. 



| 858Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮If anyone몭s going to tell Snape it will be me!몯 he said 
firmly. 몮But Harry, first of all, you몭re to go back to 
Snape and tell him that on no account is he to stop 
giving you lessons 멪 when Dumbledore hears 멪 몯 

몮I can몭t tell him that, he몭d kill me!몯 said Harry, 
outraged. 몮You didn몭t see him when we got out of the 
Pensieve 멪 몯 

몮Harry, there is nothing so important as you learning 
Occlumency!몯 said Lupin sternly. 몮Do you understand 
me? Nothing!몯 

몮Okay, okay,몯 said Harry, thoroughly discomposed, 
not to mention annoyed. 몮I몭ll ... I몭ll try and say 
something to him... But it won몭t be ...몯 

He fell silent. He could hear distant footsteps. 

몮Is that Kreacher coming downstairs?몯 

몮No,몯 said Sirius, glancing behind him. 몮It must be 
somebody your end ...몯 

Harry몭s heart skipped several beats. 

몮I몭d better go!몯 he said hastily and he pulled his head 
backward out of Grimmauld Place몭s fire. For a 
moment his head seemed to be revolving on his 
shoulders, and then he found himself kneeling in 
front of Umbridge몭s fire with his head firmly back on, 
watching the emerald flames flicker and die. 

몮Quickly, quickly!몯 he heard a wheezy voice mutter 
right outside the office door. 몮Ah, she몭s left it open...몯 

Harry dived for the Invisibility Cloak and had just 
managed to pull it back over himself when Filch burst 
into the office. He looked absolutely delighted about 

| 859Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




something and was talking to himself feverishly as he 
crossed the room, pulled open a drawer in Umbridge몭s 
desk, and began rifling through the papers inside it. 

몮Approval for Whipping . . . Approval for Whipping ... I 
can do it at last... They몭ve had it coming to them for 
years...몯 

He pulled out a piece of parchment, kissed it, then 
shuffled rapidly back out of the door, clutching it to 
his chest. 

Harry leapt to his feet and, making sure that he had 
his bag and the Invisibility Cloak was completely 
covering him, he wrenched open the door and hurried 
out of the office after Filch, who was hobbling along 
faster than Harry had ever seen him go. 

One landing down from Umbridge몭s office and Harry 
thought it was safe to become visible again; he pulled 
off the cloak, shoved it in his bag and hurried 
onward. There was a great deal of shouting and 
movement coming from the entrance hall. He ran 
down the marble staircase and found what looked like 
most of the school assembled there. 

It was just like the night when Trelawney had been 
sacked. Students were standing all around the walls 
in a great ring (some of them, Harry noticed, covered 
in a substance that looked very like Stinksap); 
teachers and ghosts were also in the crowd. 

Prominent among the onlookers were members of the 
Inquisitorial Squad, who were all looking 
exceptionally pleased with themselves, and Peeves, 
who was bobbing overhead, gazed down upon Fred 
and George, who stood in the middle of the floor with 
the unmistakable look of two people who had just 
been cornered. 



| 860Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮So!몯 said Umbridge triumphantly, whom Harry 
realized was standing just a few stairs in front of him, 
once more looking down upon her prey. 몮So . . . you 
think it amusing to turn a school corridor into a 
swamp, do you?몯 

몮Pretty amusing, yeah,몯 said Fred, looking back up at 
her without the slightest sign of fear. 

Filch elbowed his way closer to Umbridge, almost 
crying with happiness. 

몮I몭ve got the form, Headmistress,몯 he said hoarsely, 
waving the piece of parchment Harry had just seen 
him take from her desk. 몮I몭ve got the form and I몭ve got 
the whips waiting... Oh, let me do it now...몯 

몮Very good, Argus,몯 she said. 몮You two,몯 she went on, 
gazing down at Fred and George, 몮are about to learn 
what happens to wrongdoers in my school.몯 

몮You know what?몯 said Fred. 몮I don몭t think we are.몯 

He turned to his twin. 

몮George,몯 said Fred, 몮I think we몭ve outgrown full-time 
education.몯 

몮Yeah, I몭ve been feeling that way myself,몯 said George 
lightly. 

몮Time to test our talents in the real world, d몭you 
reckon?몯 asked Fred. 

몮Definitely,몯 said George. 

And before Umbridge could say a word, they raised 
their wands and said together, 몮Accio BroomsV몭 



| 861Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry heard a loud crash somewhere in the distance. 
Looking to his left he ducked just in time 멪 Fred and 
George몭s broomsticks, one still trailing the heavy 
chain and iron peg with which Umbridge had fastened 
them to the wall, were hurtling along the corridor 
toward their owners. They turned left, streaked down 
the stairs, and stopped sharply in front of the twins, 
the chain clattering loudly on the flagged stone floor. 

몮We won몭t be seeing you,몯 Fred told Professor 
Umbridge, swinging his leg over his broomstick. 

몮Yeah, don몭t bother to keep in touch,몯 said George, 
mounting his own. 

Fred looked around at the assembled students, and 
at the silent, watchful crowd. 

몮If anyone fancies buying a Portable Swamp, as 
demonstrated upstairs, come to number ninety-three, 
Diagon Alley 멪 Weasleys몭 Wizarding Wheezes,몯 he 
said in a loud voice. 몮Our new premises!몯 

몮Special discounts to Hogwarts students who swear 
they몭re going to use our products to get rid of this old 
bat,몯 added George, pointing at Professor Umbridge. 

몮STOP THEM!몯 shrieked Umbridge, but it was too late. 
As the Inquisitorial Squad closed in, Fred and George 
kicked off from the floor, shooting fifteen feet into the 
air, the iron peg swinging dangerously below. Fred 
looked across the hall at the poltergeist bobbing on 
his level above the crowd. 

몮Give her hell from us, Peeves.몯 

And Peeves, whom Harry had never seen take an 
order from a student before, swept his belled hat from 
his head and sprang to a salute as Fred and George 

| 862Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




wheeled about to tumultuous applause from the 
students below and sped out of the open front doors 
into the glorious sunset. 



| 863Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






GRAWP 

The story of Fred and George몭s flight to freedom was 
retold so often over the next few days that Harry 
could tell it would soon become the stuff of Hogwarts 
legend. Within a week, even those who had been 
eyewitnesses were half- convinced that they had seen 
the twins dive-bomb Umbridge on their brooms, 
pelting her with Dungbombs before zooming out of 
the doors. In the immediate aftermath of their 
departure there was a great wave of talk about 
copying them, so that Harry frequently heard 
students saying things like, 몮Honestly, some days I 
just feel like jumping on my broom and leaving this 
place,몯 or else, 몮One more lesson like that and I might 
just do a Weasley...몯 

Fred and George had made sure that nobody was 
likely to forget them very soon. For one thing, they 
had not left instructions on how to remove the swamp 
that now filled the corridor on the fifth floor of the 
east wing. Umbridge and Filch had been observed 
trying different means of removing it but without 
success. Eventually the area was roped off and Filch, 
| 864Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



gnashing his teeth furiously, was given the task of 
punting students across it to their classrooms. Harry 
was certain that teachers like McGonagall or Flitwick 
could have removed the swamp in an instant, but just 
as in the case of Fred and George몭s Wildfire Whiz- 
Bangs, they seemed to prefer to watch Umbridge 
struggle. 

Then there were the two large broom-shaped holes in 
Umbridge 몭s office door, through which Fred and 
George몭s Cleansweeps had smashed to rejoin their 
masters. Filch fitted a new door and removed Harry몭s 
Firebolt to the dungeons where, it was rumored, 
Umbridge had set an armed security troll to guard it. 
However, her troubles were far from over. 

Inspired by Fred and George몭s example, a great 
number of students were now vying for the newly 
vacant positions of Troublemakers-in-Chief. In spite 
of the new door, somebody managed to slip a hairy- 
snouted niffler into Umbridge 몭s office, which promptly 
tore the place apart in its search for shiny objects, 
leapt on Umbridge on her re-entrance, and tried to 
gnaw the rings off her stubby fingers. Dungbombs 
and Stinkpellets were dropped so frequently in the 
corridors that it became the new fashion for students 
to perform Bubble-Head Charms on themselves 
before leaving lessons, which ensured them a supply 
of fresh clean air, even though it gave them all the 
peculiar appearance of wearing upside-down goldfish 
bowls on their heads. 

Filch prowled the corridors with a horsewhip ready in 
his hands, desperate to catch miscreants, but the 
problem was that there were now so many of them 
that he did not know which way to turn. The 
Inquisitorial Squad were attempting to help him, but 
odd things kept happening to its members. 

Warrington of the Slytherin Quidditch team reported 
| 865Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




to the hospital wing with a horrible skin complaint 
that made him look as though he had been coated in 
cornflakes. Pansy Parkinson, to Hermione몭s delight, 
missed all her lessons the following day, as she had 
sprouted antlers. 

Meanwhile it became clear just how many Skiving 
Snackboxes Fred and George had managed to sell 
before leaving Hogwarts. Umbridge only had to enter 
her classroom for the students assembled there to 
faint, vomit, develop dangerous fevers, or else spout 
blood from both nostrils. Shrieking with rage and 
frustration she attempted to trace the mysterious 
symptoms to their source, but the students told her 
stubbornly they were suffering 몮Umbridge-itis.몯 After 
putting four successive classes in detention and 
failing to discover their secret she was forced to give 
up and allow the bleeding, swooning, sweating, and 
vomiting students to leave her classes in droves. 

But not even the users of the Snackboxes could 
compete with that master of chaos, Peeves, who 
seemed to have taken Fred몭s parting words deeply to 
heart. Cackling madly, he soared through the school, 
upending tables, bursting out of blackboards, and 
toppling statues and vases. Twice he shut Mrs. Norris 
inside suits of armor, from which she was rescued, 
yowling loudly, by the furious caretaker. He smashed 
lanterns and snuffed out candles, juggled burning 
torches over the heads of screaming students, caused 
neatly stacked piles of parchment to topple into fires 
or out of windows, flooded the second floor when he 
pulled off all the taps in the bathrooms, dropped a 
bag of tarantulas in the middle of the Great Hall 
during breakfast and, whenever he fancied a break, 
spent hours at a time floating along after Umbridge 
and blowing loud raspberries every time she spoke. 



| 866Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




None of the staff but Filch seemed to be stirring 
themselves to help her. Indeed, a week after Fred and 
George몭s departure Harry witnessed Professor 
McGonagall walking right past Peeves, who was 
determinedly loosening a crystal chandelier, and 
could have sworn he heard her tell the poltergeist out 
of the corner of her mouth, 몮It unscrews the other 
way.몯 

To cap matters, Montague had still not recovered from 
his sojourn in the toilet. He remained confused and 
disorientated and his parents were to be observed one 
Tuesday morning striding up the front drive, looking 
extremely angry. 

몮Should we say something?몯 said Hermione in a 
worried voice, pressing her cheek against the Charms 
window so that she could see Mr. and Mrs. Montague 
marching inside. 몮About what happened to him? In 
case it helps Madam Pomfrey cure him?몯 

몮 몭Course not, he몭ll recover,몯 said Ron indifferently. 

몮Anyway, more trouble for Umbridge, isn몭t it?몯 said 
Harry in a satisfied voice. 

He and Ron both tapped the teacups they were 
supposed to be charming with their wands. Harry몭s 
spouted four very short legs that would not reach the 
desk and wriggled pointlessly in midair. Ron몭s grew 
four very thin spindly legs that hoisted the cup off the 
desk with great difficulty, trembled for a few seconds, 
then folded, causing the cup to crack into two. 

몮Reparo\몯 said Hermione quickly, mending Ron몭s cup 
with a wave of her wand. 몮That몭s all very well, but 
what if Montague몭s permanently injured?몯 



| 867Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Who cares?몯 said Ron irritably, while his teacup 
stood drunkenly again, trembling violently at the 
knees. 몮Montague shouldn몭t have tried to take all 
those points from Gryffindor, should he? If you want 
to worry about anyone, Hermione, worry about me!몯 

몮You?몯 she said, catching her teacup as it scampered 
happily away across the desk on four sturdy little 
willow-patterned legs and replacing it in front of her. 
몮Why should I be worried about you?몯 

몮When Mum몭s next letter finally gets through 
Umbridge몭s screening process,몯 said Ron bitterly, now 
holding his cup up while its frail legs tried feebly to 
support its weight, 몮I몭m going to be in deep trouble. I 
wouldn몭t be surprised if she몭s sent a Howler again.몯 

몮But 멪 몯 

몮It몭ll be my fault Fred and George left, you wait,몯 said 
Ron darkly. 몮She몭ll say I should몭ve stopped them 
leaving, I should몭ve grabbed the ends of their brooms 
and hung on or something... Yeah, it몭ll be all my 
fault...몯 

몮Well, if she does say that it몭ll be very unfair, you 
couldn몭t have done anything! But I몭m sure she won몭t, I 
mean, if it몭s really true they몭ve got premises in Diagon 
Alley now, they must have been planning this for 
ages...몯 

몮Yeah, but that몭s another thing, how did they get 
premises?몯 said Ron, hitting his teacup so hard with 
his wand that its legs collapsed again and it lay 
twitching before him. 몮It몭s a bit dodgy, isn몭t it? They몭ll 
need loads of Galleons to afford the rent on a place in 
Diagon Alley, she몭ll want to know what they몭ve been 
up to, to get their hands on that sort of gold...몯 



| 868Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Well, yes, that occurred to me too,몯 said Hermione, 
allowing her teacup to jog in neat little circles around 
Harry몭s, whose stubby little legs were still unable to 
touch the desktop. 몮I몭ve been wondering whether 
Mundungus has persuaded them to sell stolen goods 
or something awful...몯 

몮He hasn몭t,몯 said Harry curtly. 

몮How do you know?몯 said Ron and Hermione together. 

몮Because 멪 몯 Harry hesitated, but the moment to 
confess finally seemed to have come. There was no 
good to be gained in keeping silent if it meant anyone 
suspected that Fred and George were criminals. 
몮Because they got the gold from me. I gave them my 
Triwizard winnings last June.몯 

There was a shocked silence, then Hermione몭s teacup 
jogged right over the edge of the desk and smashed on 
the floor. 

몮Oh, Harry, you didn몭t몯 she said. 

몮Yes, I did,몯 said Harry mutinously. 몮And I don몭t regret 
it either 멪 I didn몭t need the gold, and they몭ll be great 
at a joke shop...몯 

몮But this is excellent!몯 said Ron, looking thrilled. 몮It몭s 
all your fault, Harry 멪 Mum can몭t blame me at all! 

Can I tell her?몯 

몮Yeah, I suppose you몭d better,몯 said Harry dully. 몮 
몭Specially if she thinks they몭re receiving stolen 
cauldrons or something...몯 

Hermione said nothing at all for the rest of the lesson, 
but Harry had a shrewd suspicion that her self- 
restraint was bound to crack before long. Sure 

| 869Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




enough, once they had left the castle for break and 
were standing around in the weak May sunshine, she 
fixed Harry with a beady eye and opened her mouth 
with a determined air. 

Harry interrupted her before she had even started. 

몮It몭s no good nagging me, it몭s done,몯 he said firmly. 
몮Fred and George have got the gold 멪 spent a good 
bit of it too, by the sounds of it 멪 and I can몭t get it 
back from them and I don몭t want to. So save your 
breath, Hermione.몯 

몮I wasn몭t going to say anything about Fred and 
George!몯 she said in an injured voice. 

Ron snorted disbelievingly and Hermione threw him a 
very dirty look. 

몮No, I wasn몭t!몯 she said angrily. 몮As a matter of fact, I 
was going to ask Harry when he몭s going to go back to 
Snape and ask for Occlumency lessons again!몯 

Harry몭s heart sank. Once they had exhausted the 
subject of Fred and George몭s dramatic departure, 
which admittedly had taken many hours, Ron and 
Hermione had wanted to hear news of Sirius. As 
Harry had not confided in them the reason he had 
wanted to talk to Sirius in the first place, it had been 
hard to think of things to tell them. He had ended up 
saying to them truthfully that Sirius wanted Harry to 
resume Occlumency lessons. He had been regretting 
this ever since; Hermione would not let the subject 
drop and kept reverting to it when Harry least 
expected it. 

몮You can몭t tell me you몭ve stopped having funny 
dreams,몯 Hermione said now, 몮because Ron told me 
last night you were muttering in your sleep again...몯 

| 870Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry threw Ron a furious look. Ron had the grace to 
look ashamed of himself. 

몮You were only muttering a bit,몯 he mumbled 
apologetically. 몮Something about 몬just a bit farther.몭 몯 

몮I dreamed I was watching you lot play Quidditch,몯 
Harry lied brutally. 몮I was trying to get you to stretch 
out a bit farther to grab the Quaffle.몯 

Ron몭s ears went red. Harry felt a kind of vindictive 
pleasure: He had not, of course, dreamed anything of 
the sort. 

Last night he had once again made the journey along 
the Department of Mysteries corridor. He had passed 
through the circular room, then the room full of 
clicking and dancing light, until he found himself 
again inside that cavernous room full of shelves on 
which were ranged dusty glass spheres... 

He had hurried straight toward row number ninety- 
seven, turned left, and ran along it... It had probably 
been then that he had spoken aloud... Just a bit 
farther . . . for he could feel his conscious self 
struggling to wake . . . and before he had reached the 
end of the row, he had found himself lying in bed 
again, gazing up at the canopy of his four-poster. 

몮You are trying to block your mind, aren몭t you?몯 said 
Hermione, looking beadily at Harry. 몮You are keeping 
going with your Occlumency?몯 

몮Of course I am,몯 said Harry, trying to sound as 
though this question was insulting, but not quite 
meeting her eye. The truth was that he was so 
intensely curious about what was hidden in that 
room full of dusty orbs that he was quite keen for the 
dreams to continue. 

| 871Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The problem was that with just under a month to go 
until the exams and every free moment devoted to 
studying, his mind seemed saturated with 
information when he went to bed so that he found it 
very difficult to get to sleep at all. When he did, his 
overwrought brain presented him most nights with 
stupid dreams about the exams. He also suspected 
that part of his mind 멪 the part that often spoke in 
Hermione몭s voice 멪 now felt guilty on the occasions it 
strayed down that corridor ending in the black door, 
and sought to wake him before he could reach 
journey몭s end. 

몮You know,몯 said Ron, whose ears were still flaming 
red, 몮if Montague doesn몭t recover before Slytherin play 
Hufflepuff, we might be in with a chance of winning 
the Cup.몯 

몮Yeah, I s몭pose so,몯 said Harry, glad of a change of 
subject. 

몮I mean, we몭ve won one, lost one 멪 if Slytherin lose to 
Hufflepuff next Saturday 멪 몯 

몮Yeah, that몭s right,몯 said Harry, losing track of what 
he was agreeing to: Cho Chang had just walked 
across the courtyard, determinedly not looking at 
him. 

The final match of the Quidditch season, Gryffindor 
versus Ravenclaw, was to take place on the last 
weekend of May. Although Slytherin had been 
narrowly defeated by Hufflepuff in their last match, 
Gryffindor was not daring to hope for victory, due 
mainly (though of course nobody said it to him) to 
Ron몭s abysmal goalkeeping record. He, however, 
seemed to have found a new optimism. 



| 872Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I mean, I can몭t get any worse, can I?몯 he told Harry 
and Hermione grimly over breakfast on the morning 
of the match. 몮Nothing to lose now, is there?몯 

몮You know,몯 said Hermione, as she and Harry walked 
down to the pitch a little later in the midst of a very 
excitable crowd, 몮I think Ron might do better without 
Fred and George around. They never exactly gave him 
a lot of confidence...몯 

Luna Lovegood overtook them with what appeared to 
be a live eagle perched on top of her head. 

몮Oh gosh, I forgot!몯 said Hermione, watching the eagle 
flapping its wings as Luna walked serenely past a 
group of cackling and pointing Slytherins. 몮Cho will 
be playing, won몭t she?몯 

Harry, who had not forgotten this, merely grunted. 

They found seats in the topmost row of the stands. It 
was a fine, clear day. Ron could not wish for better, 
and Harry found himself hoping against hope that 
Ron would not give the Slytherins cause for more 
rousing choruses of 몮Weasley Is Our King.몯 

Lee Jordan, who had been very dispirited since Fred 
and George had left, was commentating as usual. As 
the teams zoomed out onto the pitches he named the 
players with something less than his usual gusto. 

"... Bradley ... Davies ... Chang,몯 he said, and Harry 
felt his stomach perform, less of a back flip, more a 
feeble lurch as Cho walked out onto the pitch, her 
shiny black hair rippling in the slight breeze. He was 
not sure what he wanted to happen anymore, except 
that he could not stand any more rows. Even the 
sight of her chatting animatedly to Roger Davies as 



| 873Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




they prepared to mount their brooms caused him only 
a slight twinge of jealousy. 

몮And they몭re off!몯 said Lee. 몮And Davies takes the 
Quaffle immediately, Ravenclaw Captain Davies with 
the Quaffle, he dodges Johnson, he dodges Bell, he 
dodges Spinnet as well... He몭s going straight for goal! 
He몭s going to shoot 멪 and 멪 and 멪 몯 Lee swore very 
loudly. 몮And he몭s scored.몯 

Harry and Hermione groaned with the rest of the 
Gryffindors. Predictably, horribly, the Slytherins on 
the other side of the stands began to sing: 

Weasley cannot save a thing, 

He cannot block a single ring . . . 

몮Harry,몯 said a hoarse voice in Harry몭s ear. 몮Hermione 



Harry looked around and saw Hagrid몭s enormous 
bearded face sticking between the seats; apparently 
he had squeezed his way all along the row behind, for 
the first and second years he had just passed had a 
ruffled, flattened look about them. For some reason, 
Hagrid was bent double as though anxious not to be 
seen, though he was still at least four feet taller than 
everybody else. 

몮Listen,몯 he whispered, 몮can yeh come with me? Now? 
While ev몭ryone몭s watchin몭 the match?몯 

몮Er ... can몭t it wait, Hagrid?몯 asked Harry. 몮Till the 
match is over? 

몮No,몯 said Hagrid. 몮No, Harry, it몭s gotta be now ... 
while ev몭ryone몭s lookin몭 the other way... Please?몯 



| 874Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Hagrid몭s nose was gently dripping blood. His eyes 
were both blackened. Harry had not seen him this 
close up since his return to the school; he looked 
utterly woebegone. 

몮 몭Course,몯 said Harry at once, 몮 몭course we몭ll come...몯 

He and Hermione edged back along their row of seats, 
causing much grumbling among the students who 
had to stand up for them. The people in Hagrid몭s row 
were not complaining, merely attempting to make 
themselves as small as possible. 

몮I 몭ppreciate this, you two, I really do,몯 said Hagrid as 
they reached the stairs. He kept looking around 
nervously as they descended toward the lawn below. 

몮I jus몭 hope she doesn몭 notice us goin몭...몯 

몮You mean Umbridge?몯 said Harry. 몮She won몭t, she몭s 
got her whole Inquisitorial Squad sitting with her, 
didn몭t you see? She must be expecting trouble at the 
match.몯 

몮Yeah, well, a bit o몭 trouble wouldn몭 hurt,몯 said 
Hagrid, pausing to peer around the edge of the stands 
to make sure the stretch of lawn between there and 
his cabin was deserted. 몮Give us more time ...몯 

몮What is it, Hagrid?몯 said Hermione, looking up at 
him with a concerned expression on her face as they 
hurried across the lawn toward the edge of the forest. 

몮Yeh 멪 yeh몭ll see in a mo몭,몯 said Hagrid, looking over 
his shoulder as a great roar rose from the stands 
behind them. 몮Hey 멪 did someone jus몭 score?몯 

몮It몭ll be Ravenclaw,몯 said Harry heavily. 



| 875Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Good ... good ...몯 said Hagrid distractedly. 몮Tha몭s 
good...몯 

They had to jog to keep up with him as he strode 
across the lawn, looking around with every other step. 
When they reached his cabin, Hermione turned 
automatically left toward the front door; Hagrid, 
however, walked straight past it into the shade of the 
trees on the outermost edge of the forest, where he 
picked up a crossbow that was leaning against a tree. 
When he realized they were no longer with him, he 
turned. 

몮We몭re goin몭 in here,몯 he said, jerking his shaggy head 
behind him. 

몮Into the forest?몯 said Hermione, perplexed. 

몮Yeah,몯 said Hagrid. 몮C몭mon now, quick, before we몭re 
spotted!몯 

Harry and Hermione looked at each other, then 
ducked into the cover of the trees behind Hagrid, who 
was already striding away from them into the green 
gloom, his crossbow over his arm. Harry and 
Hermione ran to catch up with him. 

몮Hagrid, why are you armed?몯 said Harry. 

몮Jus몭 a precaution,몯 said Hagrid, shrugging his 
massive shoulders. 

몮You didn몭t bring your crossbow the day you showed 
us the thestrals,몯 said Hermione timidly. 

몮Nah, well, we weren몭 goin몭 in so far then,몯 said 
Hagrid. 몮An몭 anyway, tha몭 was before Firenze left the 
forest, wasn몭 it?몯 



| 876Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Why does Firenze leaving make a difference?몯 asked 
Hermione curiously. 



몮 몭Cause the other centaurs are good an몭 riled at me, 
tha몭s why,몯 said Hagrid quietly, glancing around. 
몮They used ter be 멪 well, yeh couldn몭 call 몭em friendly 
멪 but we got on all righ몭. Kept 몭emselves to 몭emselves, 
bu몭 always turned up if I wanted a word. Not anymore 



He sighed deeply. 

몮Firenze said that they몭re angry because he went to 
work for Dumbledore?몯 Harry asked, tripping on a 
protruding root because he was busy watching 
Hagrid 몭s profile. 

몮Yeah,몯 said Hagrid heavily. 몮Well, angry doesn몭 cover 
it. Ruddy livid. If I hadn몭 stepped in, I reckon they몭d 몭ve 
kicked Firenze ter death 멪 몯 

몮They attacked him?몯 said Hermione, sounding 
shocked. 

몮Yep,몯 said Hagrid gruffly, forcing his way through 
several low-hanging branches. 몮He had half the herd 
onto him 멪 몯 

몮And you stopped it?몯 said Harry, amazed and 
impressed. 몮By yourself?몯 

몮 몭Course I did, couldn몭t stand by an몭 watch 몭em kill 
him, could I?몯 said Hagrid. 몮Lucky I was passin몭, 
really ... an몭 I몭d몭ve thought Firenze mighta 
remembered tha몭 before he started sendin몭 me stupid 
warnin몭s!몯 he added hotly and unexpectedly. 

Harry and Hermione looked at each other, startled, 
but Hagrid, scowling, did not elaborate. 

| 877Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Anyway,몯 he said, breathing a little more heavily 
than usual, 몮since then the other centaurs Ve bin livid 
with me an몭 the trouble is, they몭ve got a lot of 
influence in the forest... Cleverest creatures in here 



몮Is that why we몭re here, Hagrid?몯 asked Hermione. 
몮The centaurs?몯 

몮Ah no,몯 said Hagrid, shaking his head dismissively, 
몮no, it몭s not them... Well, o몭 course, they could 
complicate the problem, yeah... But yeh몭ll see what I 
mean in a bit...몯 

On this incomprehensible note he fell silent and 
forged a little ahead, taking one stride for every three 
of theirs, so that they had great trouble keeping up 
with him. 

The path was becoming increasingly overgrown and 
the trees grew so closely together as they walked 
farther and farther into the forest that it was as dark 
as dusk. They were soon a long way past the clearing 
where Hagrid had shown them the thestrals, but 
Harry felt no sense of unease until Hagrid stepped 
unexpectedly off the path and began wending his way 
in and out of trees toward the dark heart of the forest. 

몮Hagrid?몯 said Harry, fighting his way through thickly 
knotted brambles over which Hagrid had stepped 
easily and remembering very vividly what had 
happened to him on the other occasions he had 
stepped off the forest path. 몮Where are we going?몯 

몮Bit further,몯 said Hagrid over his shoulder. 몮C몭mon, 
Harry... We need ter keep together now...몯 

It was a great struggle to keep up with Hagrid, what 
with branches and thickets of thorn through which 

| 878Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Hagrid marched as easily as though they were 
cobwebs, but which snagged Harry and Hermione몭s 
robes, frequently entangling them so severely that 
they had to stop for minutes at a time to free 
themselves. Harry몭s arms and legs were soon covered 
in small cuts and scratches. They were so deep in the 
forest now that sometimes all Harry could see of 
Hagrid in the gloom was a massive dark shape ahead 
of him. Any sound seemed threatening in the muffled 
silence. The breaking of a twig echoed loudly and the 
tiniest rustle of movement, though it might have been 
made by an innocent sparrow, caused Harry to peer 
through the gloom for a culprit. It occurred to him 
that he had never managed to get this far into the 
forest without meeting some kind of creature 멪 their 
absence struck him as rather ominous. 

몮Hagrid, would it be all right if we lit our wands?몯 said 
Hermione quietly. 

몮Er ... all righ몭,몯 Hagrid whispered back. 몮In fact ...몯 

He stopped suddenly and turned around; Hermione 
walked right into him and was knocked over 
backward. Harry caught her just before she hit the 
forest floor. 

몮Maybe we bes몭 jus몭 stop fer a momen몭, so I can ... fill 
yeh in,몯 said Hagrid. 몮Before we ge몭 there, like.몯 

몮Good!몯 said Hermione, as Harry set her back on her 
feet. They both murmured 몮Lumos\몯 and their wand 
tips ignited. Hagrid 몭s face swam through the gloom by 
the light of the two wavering beams and Harry saw 
that he looked nervous and sad again. 

몮Righ,몯 said Hagrid. 몮Well ... see ... the thing is ...몯 

He took a great breath. 

| 879Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Well, there몭s a good chance I몭m goin몭 ter be gettin몭 the 
sack any day now,몯 he said. 



Harry and Hermione looked at each other, then back 
at him. 

몮But you몭ve lasted this long 멪 몯 Hermione said 
tentatively. 몮What makes you think 멪 몯 

몮Umbridge reckons it was me that put tha몭 niffler in 
her office.몯 

몮And was it?몯 said Harry, before he could stop 
himself. 

몮No, it ruddy well wasn몭!몯 said Hagrid indignantly. 
몮On몭y anythin몭 ter do with magical creatures an몭 she 
thinks it몭s got somethin몭 ter do with me. Yeh know 
she몭s bin lookin몭 fer a chance ter get rid of me ever 
since I got back. I don몭 wan몭 ter go, o몭 course, but if it 
wasn몭 fer ... well ... the special circumstances I몭m 
abou몭 ter explain to yeh, I몭d leave righ now, before 
she몭s go몭 the chance ter do it in front o몭 the whole 
school, like she did with Trelawney.몯 

Harry and Hermione both made noises of protest, but 
Hagrid overrode them with a wave of one of his 
enormous hands. 

몮It몭s not the end o몭 the world, I몭ll be able ter help 
Dumbledore once I몭m outta here, I can be useful ter 
the Order. An몭 you lot몭ll have Grubbly-Plank, yeh몭ll 멪 
yeh몭ll get through yer exams fine...몯 His voice 
trembled and broke. 

몮Don몭 worry abou몭 me,몯 he said hastily, as Hermione 
made to pat his arm. He pulled his enormous spotted 
handkerchief from the pocket of his waistcoat and 
mopped his eyes with it. 몮Look, I wouldn몭 be tellin몭 yer 

| 880Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




this at all if I didn몭 have ter. See, if I go ... well, I can몭 
leave withou몭 ... withou몭 fellin몭 someone ... because I몭ll 
멪 I몭ll need you two ter help me. An몭 Ron, if he몭s 
willin몭.몯 

몮Of course well help you,몯 said Harry at once. 몮What 
do you want us to do?몯 

Hagrid gave a great sniff and patted Harry wordlessly 
on the shoulder with such force that Harry was 
knocked sideways into a tree. 

몮I knew yeh몭d say yes,몯 said Hagrid into his 
handkerchief, 몮but I won몭 ... never ... forget ... Well ... 
c몭mon ... jus몭 a little bit further through here ... Watch 
yerselves, now, there몭s nettles...몯 

They walked on in silence for another fifteen minutes. 
Harry had opened his mouth to ask how much farther 
they had to go when Hagrid threw out his right arm to 
signal that they should stop. 

몮Really easy,몯 he said softly. 몮Very quiet, now ...몯 

They crept forward and Harry saw that they were 
facing a large, smooth mound of earth nearly as tall 
as Hagrid that he thought, with a jolt of dread, was 
sure to be the lair of some enormous animal. Trees 
had been ripped up at the roots all around the 
mound, so that it stood on a bare patch of ground 
surrounded by heaps of trunks and boughs that 
formed a kind of fence or barricade, behind which 
Harry, Hermione, and Hagrid now stood. 

몮Sleepin몭,몯 breathed Hagrid. 

Sure enough, Harry could hear a distant, rhythmic 
rumbling that sounded like a pair of enormous lungs 
at work. He glanced sideways at Hermione, who was 

| 881Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




gazing at the mound with her mouth slightly open. 

She looked utterly terrified. 

몮Hagrid,몯 she said in a whisper barely audible over 
the sound of the sleeping creature, 몮who is he?몯 

Harry found this an odd question... 몮What is it?몯 was 
the one he had been planning on asking. 

몮Hagrid, you told us,몯 said Hermione, her wand now 
shaking in her hand, 몮you told us none of them 
wanted to come!몯 

Harry looked from her to Hagrid and then, as 
realization hit him, he looked back at the mound with 
a small gasp of horror. 

The great mound of earth, on which he, Hermione, 
and Hagrid could easily have stood, was moving 
slowly up and down in time with the deep, grunting 
breathing. It was not a mound at all. It was the 
curved back of what was clearly . . . 

몮Well 멪 no 멪 he didn몭 want ter come,몯 said Hagrid, 
sounding desperate. 몮But I had ter bring him, 
Hermione, I had ter!몯 

몮But why?몯 asked Hermione, who sounded as though 
she wanted to cry. 몮Why 멪 what 멪 oh, Hagrid\몯 

몮I knew if I jus몭 got him back,몯 said Hagrid, sounding 
close to tears himself, 몮an몭 멪 an몭 taught him a few 
manners 멪 I몭d be able ter take him outside an몭 show 
ev몭ryone he몭s harmless!몯 

몮Harmless!몯 said Hermione shrilly, and Hagrid made 
frantic hushing noises with his hands as the 
enormous creature before them grunted loudly and 
shifted in its sleep. 몮He몭s been hurting you all this 

| 882Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




time, hasn몭t he? That몭s why you몭ve had all these 
injuries!몯 

몮He don몭 know his own strength!몯 said Hagrid 
earnestly. 몮An몭 he몭s gettin몭 better, he몭s not fightin몭 so 
much anymore 멪 몯 

몮So this is why it took you two months to get home!몯 
said Hermione distractedly. 몮Oh Hagrid, why did you 
bring him back if he didn몭t want to come, wouldn몭t he 
have been happier with his own people?몯 

몮They were all bullyin몭 him, Hermione, 몭cause he몭s so 
small!몯 said Hagrid. 

몮Small?몯 said Hermione. 몮Small?몯 

몮Hermione, I couldn몭 leave him,몯 said Hagrid, tears 
now trickling down his bruised face into his beard. 
몮See 멪 he몭s my brother!몯 

Hermione simply stared at him, her mouth open. 

몮Hagrid, when you say 몬brother,몭 몯 said Harry slowly, 
몮do you mean 멪 ?몯 

몮Well 멪 half-brother,몯 amended Hagrid. 몮Turns out 
me mother took up with another giant when she left 
me dad, an몭 she went an몭 had Grawp here 멪 몯 

몮Grawp?몯 said Harry. 

몮Yeah ... well, tha몭s what it sounds like when he says 
his name,몯 said Hagrid anxiously. 몮He don몭 speak a lot 
of English... I몭ve bin tryin몭 ter teach him... Anyway, 
she don몭 seem ter have liked him much more몭n she 
liked me... See, with giantesses, what counts is 
producin몭 good big kids, and he몭s always been a bit on 
the runty side fer a giant 멪 on몭y sixteen foot 멪 몯 

| 883Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Oh yes, tiny!몯 said Hermione, with a kind of 
hysterical sarcasm. 몮Absolutely minuscule!몯 

몮He was bein몭 kicked around by all o몭 them 멪 I jus몭 
couldn몭 leave him 멪 몯 

몮Did Madame Maxime want to bring him back?몯 
asked Harry. 

몮She 멪 well, she could see it was right importan몭 ter 
me,몯 said Hagrid, twisting his enormous hands. 몮Bu몭 
멪 bu몭 she got a bit tired of him after a while, I must 
admit ... so we split up on the journey home... She 
promised not ter tell anyone though...몯 

몮How on earth did you get him back without anyone 
noticing?몯 said Harry. 

몮Well, tha몭s why it took so long, see,몯 said Hagrid. 
몮Could on몭y travel by nigh an몭 through wild country 
an몭 stuff. 몭Course, he covers the ground pretty well 
when he wants ter, but he kep몭 wantin몭 ter go back...몯 

몮Oh Hagrid, why on earth didn몭t you let him!몯 said 
Hermione, flopping down onto a ripped-up tree and 
burying her face in her hands. 몮What do you think 
you몭re going to do with a violent giant who doesn몭t 
even want to be here!몯 

몮Well, now 멪 Violent몭 멪 tha몭s a bit harsh,몯 said 
Hagrid, still twisting his hands agitatedly. 몮I몭ll admit 
he mighta taken a couple o몭 swings at me when he몭s 
bin in a bad mood, but he몭s gettin몭 better, loads 
better, settlin몭 down well...몯 

몮What are those ropes for, then?몯 Harry asked. 

He had just noticed ropes thick as saplings stretching 
from around the trunks of the largest nearby trees 

| 884Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




toward the place where Grawp lay curled on the 
ground with his back to them. 

몮You have to keep him tied up?몯 said Hermione 
faintly. 

몮Well ... yeah ...몯 said Hagrid, looking anxious. 몮See 멪 
it몭s like I say 멪 he doesn몭 really know his strength 멪 몯 

Harry understood now why there had been such a 
suspicious lack of any other living creature in this 
part of the forest. 

몮So what is it you want Harry and Ron and me to do?몯 
Hermione asked apprehensively. 

몮Look after him,몯 said Hagrid croakily. 몮After I몭m 
gone.몯 

Harry and Hermione exchanged miserable looks, 

Harry uncomfortably aware that he had already 
promised Hagrid that he would do whatever he asked. 

몮What 멪 what does that involve, exactly?몯 Hermione 
inquired. 

몮Not food or anythin몭!몯 said Hagrid eagerly. 몮He can 
get his own food, no problem. Birds an몭 deer an몭 stuff 
... No, it몭s company he needs. If I jus몭 knew someone 
was carryin몭 on tryin몭 ter help him a bit ... teachin몭 
him, yeh know ...몯 

Harry said nothing, but turned to look back at the 
gigantic form lying asleep on the ground in front of 
them. Grawp had his back to them. Unlike Hagrid, 
who simply looked like a very oversize human, Grawp 
looked strangely misshapen. What Harry had taken to 
be a vast mossy boulder to the left of the great 
earthen mound he now recognized as Grawp 몭s head. 
| 885Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




It was much larger in proportion to the body than a 
human head, almost perfectly round and covered with 
tightly curling, close-growing hair the color of 
bracken. The rim of a single large, fleshy ear was 
visible on top of the head, which seemed to sit, rather 
like Uncle Vernon몭s, directly upon the shoulders with 
little or no neck in between. The back, under what 
looked like a dirty brownish smock comprised of 
animal skins sewn roughly together, was very broad, 
and as Grawp slept, it seemed to strain a little at the 
rough seams of the skins. The legs were curled up 
under the body; Harry could see the soles of 
enormous, filthy, bare feet, large as sledges, resting 
one on top of the other on the earthy forest floor. 

몮You want us to teach him,몯 Harry said in a hollow 
voice. He now understood what Firenze몭s warning had 
meant. His attempt is not working. He would do better 
to abandon it. Of course, the other creatures who lived 
in the forest would have heard Hagrid몭s fruitless 
attempts to teach Grawp English... 

몮Yeah 멪 even if yeh jus몭 talk ter him a bit,몯 said 
Hagrid hopefully. 몮 몭Cause I reckon, if he can talk ter 
people, he몭ll understand more that we all like him 
really, an몭 want him to stay...몯 

Harry looked at Hermione, who peered back at him 
from between the fingers over her face. 

몮Kind of makes you wish we had Norbert back, 
doesn몭t it?몯 he said and she gave a very shaky laugh. 

몮Yeh몭ll do it, then?몯 said Hagrid, who did not seem to 
have caught what Harry had just said. 

몮We몭ll ...몯 said Harry, already bound by his promise. 
몮We몭ll try, Hagrid...몯 



| 886Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I knew I could count on yeh, Harry,몯 Hagrid said, 
beaming in a very watery way and dabbing at his face 
with his handkerchief again. 몮An몭 I don몭 wan몭 yeh ter 
put yerself out too much, like... I know yeh몭ve got 
exams... If yeh could jus몭 nip down here in yer 
Invisibility Cloak maybe once a week an몭 have a little 
chat with him ... I몭ll wake him up, then 멪 introduce 
you 멪 몯 

몮Wha 멪 no!몯 said Hermione, jumping up, 몮Hagrid, no, 
don몭t wake him, really, we don몭t need 멪 몯 

But Hagrid had already stepped over the great trunk 
in front of them and was proceeding toward Grawp. 
When he was around ten feet away, he lifted a long, 
broken bough from the ground, smiled reassuringly 
over his shoulder at Harry and Hermione, and then 
poked Grawp hard in the middle of the back with the 
end of the bough. 

The giant gave a roar that echoed around the silent 
forest. Birds in the treetops overhead rose twittering 
from their perches and soared away. In front of Harry 
and Hermione, meanwhile, the gigantic Grawp was 
rising from the ground, which shuddered as he placed 
an enormous hand upon it to push himself onto his 
knees and turned his head to see who and what had 
disturbed him. 

몮All righ몭, Grawpy?몯 said Hagrid in a would-be cheery 
voice, backing away with the long bough raised, ready 
to poke Grawp again. 몮Had a nice sleep, eh?몯 

Harry and Hermione retreated as far as they could 
while still keeping the giant within their sights. Grawp 
knelt between two trees he had not yet uprooted. 

They looked up into his startlingly huge face, which 
resembled a gray full moon swimming in the gloom of 
the clearing. It was as though the features had been 
| 887Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




hewn onto a great stone ball. The nose was stubby 
and shapeless, the mouth lopsided and full of 
misshapen yellow teeth the size of half-bricks. The 
small eyes were a muddy greenish-brown and just 
now were half gummed together with sleep. Grawp 
raised dirty knuckles as big as cricket balls to his 
eyes, rubbed vigorously, then, without warning, 
pushed himself to his feet with surprising speed and 
agility. 

몮Oh my ...몯 Harry heard Hermione squeal, terrified, 
beside him. 

The trees to which the other ends of the ropes around 
Grawp몭s wrists and ankles were attached creaked 
ominously. He was, as Hagrid had said, at least 
sixteen feet tall. Gazing blearily around, he reached 
out a hand the size of a beach umbrella, seized a 
bird몭s nest from the upper branches of a towering 
pine and turned it upside down with a roar of 
apparent displeasure that there was no bird in it 멪 
eggs fell like grenades toward the ground and Hagrid 
threw his arms over his head to protect himself. 

몮Anyway, Grawpy,몯 shouted Hagrid, looking up 
apprehensively in case of further falling eggs, 몮I몭ve 
brought some friends ter meet yeh. Remember, I told 
yeh I might? Remember, when I said I might have ter 
go on a little trip an몭 leave them ter look after yeh fer 
a bit? Remember that, Grawpy?몯 

But Grawp merely gave another low roar; it was hard 
to say whether he was listening to Hagrid or whether 
he even recognized the sounds Hagrid was making as 
speech. He had now seized the top of the pine tree 
and was pulling it toward him, evidently for the 
simple pleasure of seeing how far it would spring 
back when he let go. 



| 888Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Now, Grawpy, don몭 do that!몯 shouted Hagrid. 몮Tha몭s 
how you ended up pullin몭 up the others 멪 몯 

And sure enough, Harry could see the earth around 
the tree몭s roots beginning to crack. 

몮I got company fer yeh!몯 Hagrid shouted. 몮Company, 
see! Look down, yeh big buffoon, I brought yeh some 
friends!몯 

몮Oh Hagrid, don몭t,몯 moaned Hermione, but Hagrid 
had already raised the bough again and gave Grawp몭s 
knee a sharp poke. 

The giant let go of the top of the pine tree, which 
swayed menacingly and deluged Hagrid with a rain of 
needles, and looked down. 

몮This,몯 said Hagrid, hastening over to where Harry 
and Hermione stood, 몮is Harry, Grawp! Harry Potter! 
He migh몭 be cornin몭 ter visit yeh if I have ter go away, 
understand?몯 

The giant had only just realized that Harry and 
Hermione were there. They watched, in great 
trepidation, as he lowered his huge boulder of a head 
so that he could peer blearily at them. 

몮An몭 this is Hermione, see? Her 멪 몯 Hagrid hesitated. 
Turning to Hermione he said, 몮Would yeh mind if he 
called yeh Hermy, Hermione? On몭y it몭s a difficult 
name fer him ter remember...몯 

몮No, not at all,몯 squeaked Hermione. 

몮This is Hermy, Grawp! An몭 she몭s gonna be cornin몭 an몭 
all! Is몭n tha몭 nice? Eh? Two friends fer yeh ter 멪 
GRAWPY, NO!몯 



| 889Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Grawp몭s hand had shot out of nowhere toward 
Hermione 멪 Harry seized her and pulled her 
backward behind the tree, so that Grawp몭s fist 
scraped the trunk but closed on thin air. 

몮BAD BOY, GRAWPY!몯 Harry heard Hagrid yelling, as 
Hermione clung to Harry behind the tree, shaking 
and whimpering. 몮VERY BAD BOY! YEH DON몭 GRAB 

멪 OUCH!몯 

Harry poked his head out from around the trunk and 
saw Hagrid lying on his back, his hand over his nose. 
Grawp, apparently losing interest, had straightened 
up again and was again engaged in pulling back the 
pine as far as it would go. 

몮Righ몭,몯 said Hagrid thickly, getting up with one hand 
pinching his bleeding nose and the other grasping his 
crossbow. 몮Well ... there yeh are... Yeh몭ve met him an몭 

멪 an몭 now he몭ll know yeh when yeh come back. Yeah 
...well...몯 

He looked up at Grawp, who was now pulling back 
the pine with an expression of detached pleasure on 
his boulderish face; the roots were creaking as he 
ripped them away from the ground... 

몮Well, I reckon tha몭s enough fer one day,몯 said Hagrid. 
몮We몭ll 멪 er 멪 we몭ll go back now, shall we?몯 

Harry and Hermione nodded. Hagrid shouldered his 
crossbow again and, still pinching his nose, led the 
way back into the trees. 

Nobody spoke for a while, not even when they heard 
the distant crash that meant Grawp had pulled over 
the pine tree at last. Hermione몭s face was pale and 
set. Harry could not think of a single thing to say. 
What on earth was going to happen when somebody 
| 890Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




found out that Hagrid had hidden Grawp in the 
forest? And he had promised that he, Ron, and 
Hermione would continue Hagrid몭s totally pointless 
attempts to civilize the giant... How could Hagrid, 
even with his immense capacity to delude himself 
that fanged monsters were lovably harmless, fool 
himself that Grawp would ever be fit to mix with 
humans? 

몮Hold it,몯 said Hagrid abruptly, just as Harry and 
Hermione were struggling through a patch of thick 
knotgrass behind him. He pulled an arrow out of the 
quiver over his shoulder and fitted it into the 
crossbow. Harry and Hermione raised their wands; 
now that they had stopped walking, they too could 
hear movement close by. 

몮Oh blimey,몯 said Hagrid quietly. 

몮I thought that we told you, Hagrid,몯 said a deep male 
voice, 몮that you are no longer welcome here?몯 

A man몭s naked torso seemed for an instant to be 
floating toward them through the dappled green half- 
light. Then they saw that his waist joined smoothly 
with a horse몭s chestnut body. This centaur had a 
proud, high-cheekboned face and long black hair. 

Like Hagrid, he was armed: A quiverful of arrows and 
a long bow were slung over his shoulders. 

몮How are yeh, Magorian?몯 said Hagrid warily. 

The trees behind the centaur rustled and four or five 
more emerged behind him. Harry recognized the 
black-bodied and bearded Bane, whom he had met 
nearly four years ago on the same night he had met 
Firenze. Bane gave no sign that he had ever seen 
Harry before. 



| 891Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮So,몯 he said, with a nasty inflection in his voice, 
before turning immediately to Magorian. 몮We agreed, I 
think, what we would do if this human showed his 
face in the forest again?몯 

몮 This human몭 now, am I?몯 said Hagrid testily. 몮Jus몭 
fer stoppin몭 all of yeh committin몭 murder?몯 

몮You ought not to have meddled, Hagrid,몯 said 
Magorian. 몮Our ways are not yours, nor are our laws. 
Firenze has betrayed and dishonored us.몯 

몮I dunno how yeh work that out,몯 said Hagrid 
impatiently. 몮He몭s done nothin몭 except help Albus 
Dumbledore 멪 몯 

몮Firenze has entered into servitude to humans,몯 said 
a gray centaur with a hard, deeply lined face. 

몮 Servitude !몯 said Hagrid scathingly. 몮He몭s doin몭 
Dumbledore a favor is all 멪 몯 

몮He is peddling our knowledge and secrets among 
humans,몯 said Magorian quietly. 몮There can be no 
return from such disgrace.몯 

몮If yeh say so,몯 said Hagrid, shrugging, 몮but 
personally I think yeh 몭re makin몭 a big mistake 멪 몯 

몮As are you, human,몯 said Bane, 몮coming back into 
our forest when we warned you 멪 몯 

몮Now, you listen ter me,몯 said Hagrid angrily. 몮I몭ll have 
less of the 몬our몭 forest, if it몭s all the same ter you. It몭s 
not up ter you who comes an몭 goes in here 멪 몯 

몮No more is it up to you, Hagrid,몯 said Magorian 
smoothly. 몮I shall let you pass today because you are 
accompanied by your young 멪 몯 

| 892Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮They몭re not his!몯 interrupted Bane contemptuously. 
몮Students, Magorian, from up at the school! They 
have probably already profited from the traitor 
F irenze 몭s teachings ...몯 

몮Nevertheless,몯 said Magorian calmly, 몮the slaughter 
of foals is a terrible crime... We do not touch the 
innocent. Today, Hagrid, you pass. Henceforth, stay 
away from this place. You forfeited the friendship of 
the centaurs when you helped the traitor Firenze 
escape us.몯 

몮I won몭 be kept outta the fores몭 by a bunch of mules 
like you!몯 said Hagrid loudly. 

몮Hagrid,몯 said Hermione in a high-pitched and 
terrified voice, as both Bane and the gray centaur 
pawed at the ground, 몮let몭s go, please lets go! 

Hagrid moved forward, but his crossbow was still 
raised and his eyes were still fixed threateningly upon 
Magorian. 

몮We know what you are keeping in the forest, Hagrid!몯 
Magorian called after them, as the centaurs slipped 
out of sight. 몮And our tolerance is waning!몯 

Hagrid turned and gave every appearance of wanting 
to walk straight back to Magorian again. 

몮You몭ll tolerate him as long as he몭s here, it몭s as much 
his forest as yours!몯 he yelled, while Harry and 
Hermione both pushed with all their might against 
Hagrid 몭s moleskin waistcoat in an effort to keep him 
moving forward. Still scowling, he looked down; his 
expression changed to mild surprise at the sight of 
them both pushing him. He seemed not to have felt it. 



| 893Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Calm down, you two,몯 he said, turning to walk on 
while they panted along behind him. 몮Ruddy old nags 
though, eh?몯 

몮Hagrid,몯 said Hermione breathlessly, skirting the 
patch of nettles they had passed on their way there, 
몮if the centaurs don몭t want humans in the forest, it 
doesn몭t really look as though Harry and I will be able 



몮Ah, you heard what they said,몯 said Hagrid 
dismissively 몮They wouldn몭t hurt foals 멪 I mean, 
kids. Anyway, we can몭 let ourselves be pushed around 
by that lot...몯 

몮Nice try,몯 Harry murmured to Hermione, who looked 
crestfallen. 

At last they rejoined the path and after another ten 
minutes, the trees began to thin. They were able to 
see patches of clear blue sky again and hear, in the 
distance, the definite sounds of cheering and 
shouting. 

몮Was that another goal?몯 asked Hagrid, pausing in 
the shelter of the trees as the Quidditch stadium 
came into view. 몮Or d몭you reckon the match is over?몯 

몮I don몭t know,몯 said Hermione miserably. Harry saw 
that she looked much the worse for wear; her hair 
was full of bits of twig and leaves, her robes were 
ripped in several places and there were numerous 
scratches on her face and arms. He knew he could 
look little better. 

몮I reckon it몭s over, yeh know!몯 said Hagrid, still 
squinting toward the stadium. 몮Look 멪 there몭s people 
cornin몭 out already 멪 if you two hurry yeh 몭ll be able 



| 894Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




ter blend in with the crowd an몭 no one몭ll know you 
weren몭t there!몯 



몮Good idea,몯 said Harry. 몮Well ... see you later, then, 
Hagrid...몯 

몮I don몭t believe him,몯 said Hermione in a very 
unsteady voice, the moment they were out of earshot 
of Hagrid. 몮I don몭t believe him. I really don몭t believe 
him...몯 

몮Calm down,몯 said Harry. 

몮Calm down!몯 she said feverishly. 몮A giant! A giant in 
the forest! And we몭re supposed to give him English 
lessons! Always assuming, of course, we can get past 
the herd of murderous centaurs on the way in and 
out! I 멪 don몭t 멪 believe 멪 him!몯 

몮We haven몭t got to do anything yet!몯 Harry tried to 
reassure her in a quiet voice, as they joined a stream 
of jabbering Hufflepuffs heading back toward the 
castle. 몮He몭s not asking us to do anything unless he 
gets chucked out and that might not even happen 멪 몯 

몮Oh come off it, Harry!몯 said Hermione angrily, 
stopping dead in her tracks so that the people behind 
her had to swerve to avoid her. 몮Of course he몭s going 
to be chucked out and to be perfectly honest, after 
what we몭ve just seen, who can blame Umbridge?몯 

There was a pause in which Harry glared at her, and 
her eyes filled slowly with tears. 

몮You didn몭t mean that,몯 said Harry quietly. 

몮No ... well ... all right ... I didn몭t,몯 she said, wiping 
her eyes angrily. 몮But why does he have to make life 
so difficult for himself 멪 for us?몯 

| 895Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I dunno 멪 몯 



Weasley is our King, 

Weasley is our King, 

He didn몭t let the Quaffle in, 

Weasley is our King . . . 

몮And I wish they몭d stop singing that stupid song,몯 said 
Hermione miserably, 몮haven몭t they gloated enough?몯 

A great tide of students was moving up the sloping 
lawns from the pitch. 

몮Oh, let몭s get in before we have to meet the 
Slytherins,몯 said Hermione. 

Weasley can save anything, 

He never leaves a single ring 
That몭s why Gryffindors all sing: 

Weasley is our King. 

몮Hermione ...몯 said Harry slowly. 

The song was growing louder, but it was issuing not 
from a crowd of green-and-silver-clad Slytherins, but 
from a mass of red and gold moving slowly toward the 
castle, which was bearing a solitary figure upon its 
many shoulders... 

Weasley is our King, 

Weasley is our King, 

He didn몭t let the Quaffle in, 

Weasley is our King . . . 

몮No!몯 said Hermione in a hushed voice. 

몮YES!몯 said Harry loudly. 



| 896Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮HARRY! HERMIONE!몯 yelled Ron, waving the silver 
Quidditch Cup in the air and looking quite beside 
himself. 몮WE DID IT! WE WON!몯 



They beamed up at him as he passed; there was a 
scrum at the door of the castle and Ron몭s head got 
rather badly bumped on the lintel, but nobody 
seemed to want to put him down. Still singing, the 
crowd squeezed itself into the entrance hall and out of 
sight. Harry and Hermione watched them go, 
beaming, until the last echoing strains of 몮Weasley Is 
Our King몯 died away. Then they turned to each other, 
their smiles fading. 

몮We몭ll save our news till tomorrow, shall we?몯 said 
Harry. 

몮Yes, all right,몯 said Hermione wearily. 몮I몭m not in any 
hurry...몯 

They climbed the steps together. At the front doors 
both instinctively looked back at the Forbidden 
Forest. Harry was not sure whether it was his 
imagination or not, but he rather thought he saw a 
small cloud of birds erupting into the air over the 
treetops in the distance, almost as though the tree in 
which they had been nesting had just been pulled up 
by the roots. 



| 897Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






O.W.L.S 



Ron몭s euphoria at helping Gryffindor scrape the 
Quidditch Cup was such that he could not settle to 
anything next day. All he wanted to do was talk over 
the match and Harry and Hermione found it very 
difficult to find an opening in which to mention 
Grawp 멪 not that either of them tried very hard; 
neither was keen to be the one to bring Ron back to 
reality in quite such a brutal fashion. As it was 
another fine, warm day, they persuaded him to join 
them in studying under the beech tree on the edge of 
the lake, where they stood less chance of being 
overheard than in the common room. Ron was not 
particularly keen on this idea at first; he was 
thoroughly enjoying being patted on the back by 
Gryffindors walking past his chair, not to mention the 
occasional outbursts of 몮Weasley Is Our King,몯 but 
agreed after a while that some fresh air might do him 
good. 

They spread their books out in the shade of the beech 
tree and sat down while Ron talked them through his 



| 898Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



first save of the match for what felt like the dozenth 
time. 

몮Well, I mean, I몭d already let in that one of Davies몭s, 
so I wasn몭t feeling that confident, but I dunno, when 
Bradley came toward me, just out of nowhere, I 
thought 멪 you can do this\ And I had about a second 
to decide which way to fly, you know, because he 
looked like he was aiming for the right goal hoop 멪 
my right, obviously, his left 멪 but I had a funny 
feeling that he was feinting, and so I took the chance 
and flew left 멪 his right, I mean 멪 and 멪 well 멪 you 
saw what happened,몯 he concluded modestly, 
sweeping his hair back quite unnecessarily so that it 
looked interestingly windswept and glancing around 
to see whether the people nearest to them 멪 a bunch 
of gossiping third-year Hufflepuffs 멪 had heard him. 
몮And then, when Chambers came at me about five 
minutes later 멪 what?몯 Ron said, stopping mid- 
sentence at the look on Harry몭s face. 몮Why are you 
grinning?몯 

몮I몭m not,몯 said Harry quickly, looking down at his 
Transfiguration notes and attempting to straighten 
his face. The truth was that Ron had just reminded 
Harry forcibly of another Gryffindor Quidditch player 
who had once sat rumpling his hair under this very 
tree. 몮I몭m just glad we won, that몭s all.몯 

몮Yeah,몯 said Ron slowly, savoring the words, 몮we won. 
Did you see the look on Chang몭s face when Ginny got 
the Snitch right out from under her nose?몯 

몮I suppose she cried, did she?몯 said Harry bitterly. 

몮Well, yeah 멪 more out of temper than anything, 
though ...몯 Ron frowned slightly. 몮But you saw her 
chuck her broom away when she got back to the 
ground, didn몭t you?몯 

| 899Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Er 멪 몯 said Harry. 

몮Well, actually ... no, Ron,몯 said Hermione with a 
heavy sigh, putting down her book and looking at him 
apologetically. 몮As a matter of fact, the only bit of the 
match Harry and I saw was Davies몭s first goal.몯 

Ron몭s carefully ruffled hair seemed to wilt with 
disappointment. 

몮You didn몭t watch?몯 he said faintly, looking from one 
to the other. 몮You didn몭t see me make any of those 
saves?몯 

몮Well 멪 no,몯 said Hermione, stretching out a 
placatory hand toward him. 몮But Ron, we didn몭t want 
to leave 멪 we had to!몯 

몮Yeah?몯 said Ron, whose face was growing rather red. 
몮How come?몯 

몮It was Hagrid,몯 said Harry. 몮He decided to tell us why 
he몭s been covered in injuries ever since he got back 
from the giants. He wanted us to go into the forest 
with him, we had no choice, you know how he gets... 
Anyway ...몯 

The story was told in five minutes, by the end of 
which Ron몭s indignation had been replaced by a look 
of total incredulity. 

몮He brought one back and hid it in the forest?몯 

몮Yep,몯 said Harry grimly. 

몮No,몯 said Ron, as though by saying this he could 
make it untrue. 몮No, he can몭t have...몯 



| 900Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Well, he has,몯 said Hermione firmly. 몮Grawp몭s about 
sixteen feet tall, enjoys ripping up twenty-foot pine 
trees, and knows me,몯 she snorted, 몮as Hermy.몯 

Ron gave a nervous laugh. 

몮And Hagrid wants us to . . . ?몯 

몮Teach him English, yeah,몯 said Harry. 

몮He몭s lost his mind,몯 said Ron in an almost awed 
voice. 

몮Yes,몯 said Hermione irritably, turning a page of 
Intermediate Transfiguration and glaring at a series of 
diagrams showing an owl turning into a pair of opera 
glasses. 몮Yes, I몭m starting to think he has. But 
unfortunately, he made Harry and me promise.몯 

몮Well, you몭re just going to have to break your promise, 
that몭s all,몯 said Ron firmly. 몮I mean, come on ... We몭ve 
got exams and we몭re about that far,몯 he held up his 
hand to show thumb and forefinger a millimeter 
apart, 몮from being chucked out as it is. And anyway 
... remember Norbert? Remember Aragog? Have we 
ever come off better for mixing with any of Hagrid 몭s 
monster mates?몯 

몮I know, it몭s just that 멪 we promised,몯 said Hermione 
in a small voice. 

Ron smoothed his hair flat again, looking 
preoccupied. 

몮Well,몯 he sighed, 몮Hagrid hasn몭t been sacked yet, has 
he? He몭s hung on this long, maybe he몭ll hang on till 
the end of term and we won몭t have to go near Grawp 
at all.몯 



| 901Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The castle grounds were gleaming in the sunlight as 
though freshly painted; the cloudless sky smiled at 
itself in the smoothly sparkling lake, the satin-green 
lawns rippled occasionally in a gentle breeze: June 
had arrived, but to the fifth years this meant only one 
thing: Their O.W.L.s were upon them at last. 

Their teachers were no longer setting them 
homework; lessons were devoted to reviewing those 
topics their teachers thought most likely to come up 
in the exams. The purposeful, feverish atmosphere 
drove nearly everything but the O.W.L.s from Harry몭s 
mind, though he did wonder occasionally during 
Potions lessons whether Lupin had ever told Snape 
that he must continue giving Harry Occlumency 
tuition: If he had, then Snape had ignored Lupin as 
thoroughly as he was now ignoring Harry. This suited 
Harry very well; he was quite busy and tense enough 
without extra classes with Snape, and to his relief 
Hermione was much too preoccupied these days to 
badger him about Occlumency. She was spending a 
lot of time muttering to herself and had not laid out 
any elf clothes for days. 

She was not the only person acting oddly as the 
O.W.L.s drew steadily nearer. Ernie Macmillan had 
developed an irritating habit of interrogating people 
about their study habits. 

몮How many hours d몭you think you몭re doing a day?몯 he 
demanded of Harry and Ron as they queued outside 
Herbology, a manic gleam in his eyes. 

몮I dunno,몯 said Ron. 몮A few ...몯 

몮More or less than eight?몯 

몮Less, I s몭pose,몯 said Ron, looking slightly alarmed. 



| 902Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몬Tm doing eight,몯 said Ernie, puffing out his chest. 
몮Eight or nine. I몭m getting an hour in before breakfast 
every day. Eight몭s my average. I can do ten on a good 
weekend day. I did nine and a half on Monday. Not so 
good on Tuesday 멪 only seven and a quarter. Then 
on Wednesday 멪 뫃몯 

Harry was deeply thankful that Professor Sprout 
ushered them into greenhouse three at that point, 
forcing Ernie to abandon his recital. 

Meanwhile Draco Malfoy had found a different way to 
induce panic. 

몮Of course, it몭s not what you know,몯 he was heard to 
tell Crabbe and Goyle loudly outside Potions a few 
days before the exams were to start, 몮it몭s who you 
know. Now, Father몭s been friendly with the head of 
the Wizarding Examinations Authority for years 멪 old 
Griselda Marchbanks 멪 we몭ve had her round for 
dinner and everything...몯 

몮Do you think that몭s true?몯 Hermione whispered to 
Harry and Ron, looking frightened. 

몮Nothing we can do about it if it is,몯 said Ron 
gloomily. 

몮I don몭t think it몭s true,몯 said Neville quietly from 
behind them. 몮Because Griselda Marchbanks is a 
friend of my gran몭s, and she몭s never mentioned the 
Malfoys.몯 

몮What몭s she like, Neville?몯 asked Hermione at once. 

몮Is she strict?몯 

몮Bit like Gran, really,몯 said Neville in a subdued voice. 



| 903Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Knowing her won몭t hurt your chances though, will 
it?몯 Ron told him encouragingly. 

몮Oh, I don몭t think it will make any difference,몯 said 
Neville, still more miserably. 몮Gran몭s always telling 
Professor Marchbanks I몭m not as good as my dad... 
Well ... you saw what she몭s like at St. Mungo몭s...몯 

Neville looked fixedly at the floor. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione glanced at one another, but didn몭t know 
what to say. It was the first time that Neville had 
acknowledged that they had met at the Wizarding 
hospital. 

Meanwhile a flourishing black-market trade in aids to 
concentration, mental agility, and wakefulness had 
sprung up among the fifth and seventh years. Harry 
and Ron were much tempted by the bottle of 
Baruffio몭s Brain Elixir offered to them by Ravenclaw 
sixth year Eddie Carmichael, who swore it was solely 
responsible for the nine 몮Outstanding몯 O.W.L.s he 
had gained the previous summer and was offering the 
whole pint for a mere twelve Galleons. Ron assured 
Harry he would reimburse him for his half the 
moment he left Hogwarts and got a job, but before 
they could close the deal, Hermione had confiscated 
the bottle from Carmichael and poured the contents 
down a toilet. 

몮Hermione, we wanted to buy that!몯 shouted Ron. 

몮Don몭t be stupid,몯 she snarled. 몮You might as well 
take Harold Dingle몭s powdered dragon claw and have 
done with it.몯 

몮Dingle몭s got powdered dragon claw?몯 said Ron 
eagerly. 



| 904Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Not anymore,몯 said Hermione. 몮I confiscated that too. 
None of these things actually works you know 멪 몯 

몮Dragon claw does work!몯 said Ron. 몮It몭s supposed to 
be incredible, really gives your brain a boost, you 
come over all cunning for a few hours 멪 Hermione, 
let me have a pinch, go on, it can몭t hurt 멪 몯 

몮This stuff can,몯 said Hermione grimly. 몮I몭ve had a 
look at it, and it몭s actually dried doxy droppings.몯 

This information took the edge off Harry and Ron몭s 
desire for brain stimulants. 

They received their examination schedules and details 
of the procedure for O.W.L.s during their next 
Transfiguration lesson. 

몮As you can see,몯 Professor McGonagall told the class 
while they copied down the dates and times of their 
exams from the blackboard, 몮your O.W.L.s are spread 
over two successive weeks. You will sit the theory 
exams in the mornings and the practice in the 
afternoons. Your practical Astronomy examination 
will, of course, take place at night. 

몮Now, I must warn you that the most stringent Anti- 
Cheating Charms have been applied to your 
examination papers. Auto-Answer Quills are banned 
from the examination hall, as are Remembralls, 
Detachable Cribbing Cuffs, and Self- Correcting Ink. 
Every year, I am afraid to say, seems to harbor at 
least one student who thinks that he or she can get 
around the Wizarding Examinations Authority몭s rules. 
I can only hope that it is nobody in Gryffindor. Our 
new 멪 headmistress몯 멪 Professor McGonagall 
pronounced the word with the same look on her face 
that Aunt Petunia had whenever she was 
contemplating a particularly stubborn bit of dirt 멪 
| 905Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮has asked the Heads of House to tell their students 
that cheating will be punished most severely 멪 
because, of course, your examination results will 
reflect upon the headmistress몭s new regime at the 
school...몯 

Professor McGonagall gave a tiny sigh. Harry saw the 
nostrils of her sharp nose flare. 

몮However, that is no reason not to do your very best. 
You have your own futures to think about.몯 

몮Please, Professor,몯 said Hermione, her hand in the 
air, 몮when will we find out our results?몯 

몮An owl will be sent to you some time in July,몯 said 
Professor McGonagall. 

몮Excellent,몯 said Dean Thomas in an audible whisper, 
몮so we don몭t have to worry about it till the holidays...몯 

Harry imagined sitting in his bedroom in Privet Drive 
in six weeks몭 time, waiting for his O.W.L. results. 

Well, he thought, at least he would be sure of one bit 
of post next summer... 

Their first exam, Theory of Charms, was scheduled for 
Monday morning. Harry agreed to test Hermione after 
lunch on Sunday but regretted it almost at once. She 
was very agitated and kept snatching the book back 
from him to check that she had gotten the answer 
completely right, finally hitting him hard on the nose 
with the sharp edge of Achievements in Charming. 

몮Why don몭t you just do it yourself?몯 he said firmly, 
handing the book back to her, his eyes watering. 

Meanwhile Ron was reading two years of Charms 
notes with his fingers in his ears, his lips moving 

| 906Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




soundlessly; Seamus was lying flat on his back on the 
floor, reciting the definition of a Substantive Charm, 
while Dean checked it against The Standard Book of 
Spells, Grade 5; and Parvati and Lavender, who were 
practicing basic locomotion charms, were making 
their pencil cases race each other around the edge of 
the table. 

Dinner was a subdued affair that night. Harry and 
Ron did not talk much, but ate with gusto, having 
studied hard all day. Hermione on the other hand 
kept putting down her knife and fork and diving 
under the table for her bag, from which she would 
seize a book to check some fact or figure. Ron was 
just telling her that she ought to eat a decent meal or 
she would not sleep that night, when her fork slid 
from her limp fingers and landed with a loud tinkle on 
her plate. 

몮Oh, my goodness,몯 she said faintly, staring into the 
entrance hall. 몮Is that them? Is that the examiners?몯 

Harry and Ron whipped around on their bench. 
Through the doors to the Great Hall they could see 
Umbridge standing with a small group of ancient- 
looking witches and wizards. Umbridge, Harry was 
pleased to see, looked rather nervous. 

몮Shall we go and have a closer look?몯 said Ron. 

Harry and Hermione nodded and they hastened 
toward the double doors into the entrance hall, 
slowing down as they stepped over the threshold to 
walk sedately past the examiners. Harry thought 
Professor Marchbanks must be the tiny, stooped 
witch with a face so lined it looked as though it had 
been draped in cobwebs; Umbridge was speaking to 
her very deferentially. Professor Marchbanks seemed 



| 907Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




to be a little deaf; she was answering Umbridge very 
loudly considering that they were only a foot apart. 

몮Journey was fine, journey was fine, we몭ve made it 
plenty of times before!몯 she said impatiently. 몮Now, I 
haven몭t heard from Dumbledore lately!몯 she added, 
peering around the hall as though hopeful he might 
suddenly emerge from a broom cupboard. 몮No idea 
where he is, I suppose?몯 

몮None at all,몯 said Umbridge, shooting a malevolent 
look at Harry, Ron, and Hermione, who were now 
dawdling around the foot of the stairs as Ron 
pretended to do up his shoelace. 몮But I daresay the 
Ministry of Magic will track him down soon enough...몯 

몮I doubt it,몯 shouted tiny Professor Marchbanks, 몮not 
if Dumbledore doesn몭t want to be found! I should 
know... Examined him personally in Transfiguration 
and Charms when he did N.E.W.T.s ... Did things 
with a wand I몭d never seen before ...몯 

몮Yes ... well ...몯 said Professor Umbridge as Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione dragged their feet up the marble 
staircase as slowly as they dared, 몮let me show you to 
the staffroom ... I daresay you몭d like a cup of tea after 
your journey...몯 

It was an uncomfortable sort of an evening. Everyone 
was trying to do some last-minute studying but 
nobody seemed to be getting very far. Harry went to 
bed early but then lay awake for what felt like hours. 
He remembered his careers consultation and 
McGonagall몭s furious declaration that she would help 
him become an Auror if it was the last thing she did... 
He wished he had expressed a more achievable 
ambition now that exam time was here... He knew 
that he was not the only one lying awake, but none of 



| 908Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




the others in the dormitory spoke and finally, one by 
one, they fell asleep. 

None of the fifth years talked very much at breakfast 
next day either. Parvati was practicing incantations 
under her breath while the salt cellar in front of her 
twitched, Hermione was rereading Achievement in 
Charming so fast that her eyes appeared blurred, and 
Neville kept dropping his knife and fork and knocking 
over the marmalade. 

Once breakfast was over, the fifth and seventh years 
milled around in the entrance hall while the other 
students went off to lessons. Then, at half-past nine, 
they were called forward class by class to reenter the 
Great Hall, which was now arranged exactly as Harry 
had seen it in the Pensieve when his father, Sirius, 
and Snape had been taking their O.W.L.s. The four 
House tables had been removed and replaced instead 
with many tables for one, all facing the staff-table end 
of the Hall where Professor McGonagall stood facing 
them. When they were all seated and quiet she said, 
몮You may begin,몯 and turned over an enormous 
hourglass on the desk beside her, on which were also 
spare quills, ink bottles, and rolls of parchment. 

Harry turned over his paper, his heart thumping 
hard... Three rows to his right and four seats ahead, 
Hermione was already scribbling. . . He lowered his 
eyes to the first question: a) Give the incantation, and 
b) describe the wand movement required to make 
objects fly... 

Harry had a fleeting memory of a club soaring high 
into the air and landing loudly on the thick skull of a 
troll... Smiling slightly, he bent over the paper and 
began to write... 



| 909Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Well, it wasn몭t too bad, was it?몯 asked Hermione 
anxiously in the entrance hall two hours later, still 
clutching the exam paper. 몮I몭m not sure I did myself 
justice on Cheering Charms, I just ran out of time 멪 
did you put in the countercharm for hiccups? I wasn몭t 
sure whether I ought to, it felt like too much 멪 and 
on question twenty-three 멪 몯 

몮Hermione,몯 said Ron sternly, 몮we몭ve been through 
this before... We몭re not going through every exam 
afterward, it몭s bad enough doing them once.몯 

The fifth years ate lunch with the rest of the school 
(the four House tables reappeared over the lunch 
hour) and then trooped off into the small chamber 
beside the Great Hall, where they were to wait until 
called for their practical examination. As small groups 
of students were called forward in alphabetical order, 
those left behind muttered incantations and practiced 
wand movements, occasionally poking one another in 
the back or eye by mistake. 

Hermione몭s name was called. Trembling, she left the 
chamber with Anthony Goldstein, Gregory Goyle, and 
Daphne Greengrass. Students who had already been 
tested did not return afterward, so Harry and Ron 
had no idea how Hermione had done. 

몮She몭ll be fine 멪 remember she got a hundred and 
twelve percent on one of our Charms tests?몯 said Ron. 

Ten minutes later, Professor Flitwick called, 
몮Parkinson, Pansy 멪 Patil, Padma 멪 Patil, Parvati 멪 
Potter, Harry.몯 

몮Good luck,몯 said Ron quietly. Harry walked into the 
Great Hall, clutching his wand so tightly his hand 
shook. 



| 910Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Professor Tofty is free, Potter,몯 squeaked Professor 
Flitwick, who was standing just inside the door. He 
pointed Harry toward what looked like the very oldest 
and baldest examiner, who was sitting behind a small 
table in a far corner, a short distance from Professor 
Marchbanks, who was halfway through testing Draco 
Malfoy. 

몮Potter, is it?몯 said Professor Tofty, consulting his 
notes and peering over his pince-nez at Harry as he 
approached. 몮The famous Potter?몯 

Out of the corner of his eye, Harry distinctly saw 
Malfoy throw a scathing look over at him; the wine 
glass Malfoy had been levitating fell to the floor and 
smashed. Harry could not suppress a grin. Professor 
Tofty smiled back at him encouragingly. 

몮That몭s it,몯 he said in his quavery old voice, 몮no need 
to be nervous... Now, if I could ask you to take this 
eggcup and make it do some cartwheels for me...몯 

On the whole Harry thought it went rather well; his 
Levitation Charm was certainly much better than 
Malfoy몭s had been, though he wished he had not 
mixed up the incantations for Color- Change and 
Growth Charms, so that the rat he was supposed to 
be turning orange swelled shockingly and was the size 
of a badger before Harry could rectify his mistake. He 
was glad Hermione had not been in the Hall at the 
time and neglected to mention it to her afterward. He 
could tell Ron, though; Ron had caused a dinner plate 
to mutate into a large mushroom and had no idea 
how it had happened. 

There was no time to relax that night 멪 they went 
straight to the common room after dinner and 
submerged themselves in studying for Transfiguration 



| 911Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




next day. Harry went to bed, his head buzzing with 
complex spell models and theories. 

He forgot the definition of a Switching Spell during his 
written exam next morning, but thought his practical 
could have been a lot worse. At least he managed to 
vanish the whole of his iguana, whereas poor Hannah 
Abbott lost her head completely at the next table and 
somehow managed to multiply her ferret into a flock 
of flamingos, causing the examination to be halted for 
ten minutes while the birds were captured and 
carried out of the Hall. 

They had their Herbology exam on Wednesday (other 
than a small bite from a Fanged Geranium, Harry felt 
he had done reasonably well) and then, on Thursday, 
Defense Against the Dark Arts. Here, for the first 
time, Harry felt sure he had passed. He had no 
problem with any of the written questions and took 
particular pleasure, during the practical examination, 
in performing all the counterjinxes and defensive 
spells right in front of Umbridge, who was watching 
coolly from near the doors into the entrance hall. 

몮Oh bravo!몯 cried Professor Tofty, who was examining 
Harry again, when Harry demonstrated a perfect 
boggart banishing spell. 몮Very good indeed! Well, I 
think that몭s all, Potter ... unless ...몯 

He leaned forward a little. 

몮I heard, from my dear friend Tiberius Ogden, that 
you can produce a Patronus? For a bonus point ... ?몯 

Harry raised his wand, looked directly at Umbridge, 
and imagined her being sacked. 

몮Expecto Patronum).몯 



| 912Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The silver stag erupted from the end of his wand and 
cantered the length of the hall. All of the examiners 
looked around to watch its progress and when it 
dissolved into silver mist, Professor Tofty clapped his 
veined and knotted hands enthusiastically. 

몮Excellent!몯 he said. 몮Very well, Potter, you may go!몯 

As Harry passed Umbridge beside the door their eyes 
met. There was a nasty smile playing around her 
wide, slack mouth, but he did not care. Unless he was 
very much mistaken (and he was not planning on 
saying it to anybody, in case he was), he had just 
achieved an 몮Outstanding몯 O.W.L. 

On Friday, Harry and Ron had a day off while 
Hermione sat her Ancient Runes exam, and as they 
had the whole weekend in front of them, they 
permitted themselves a break from studying. They 
stretched and yawned beside the open window, 
through which warm summer air wafted over them as 
they played a desultory game of wizard chess. Harry 
could see Hagrid in the distance, teaching a class on 
the edge of the forest. He was trying to guess what 
creatures they were examining 멪 he thought it must 
be unicorns, because the boys seemed to be standing 
back a little 멪 when the portrait hole opened and 
Hermione clambered in, looking thoroughly bad 
tempered. 

몮How were the runes?몯 said Ron, yawning and 
stretching. 

몮I mistranslated 몬ehwaz,몭 몯 said Hermione furiously. 몮It 
means 몬partnership,몭 not 몬defense,몭 I mixed it up with 
몬eihwaz.몭 몯 

몮Ah well,몯 said Ron lazily, 몮that몭s only one mistake, 
isn몭t it, you몭ll still get 멪 몯 

| 913Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Oh shut up,몯 said Hermione angrily, 몮it could be the 
one mistake that makes the difference between a pass 
and a fail. And what몭s more, someone몭s put another 
niffler in Umbridge몭s office, I don몭t know how they got 
it through that new door, but I just walked past there 
and Umbridge is shrieking her head off 멪 by the 
sound of it, it tried to take a chunk out of her leg 멪 몯 

몮Good,몯 said Harry and Ron together. 

몮It is not good!몯 said Hermione hotly. 몮She thinks it몭s 
Hagrid doing it, remember? And we do not want 
Hagrid chucked out!몯 

몮He몭s teaching at the moment, she can몭t blame him,몯 
said Harry, gesturing out of the window. 

몮Oh, you몭re so naive sometimes, Harry, you really 
think Umbridge will wait for proof?몯 said Hermione, 
who seemed determined to be in a towering temper, 
and she swept off toward the girls몭 dormitories, 
banging the door behind her. 

몮Such a lovely, sweet-tempered girl,몯 said Ron, very 
quietly, prodding his queen forward so that she could 
begin beating up one of Harry몭s knights. 

Hermione 몭s bad mood persisted for most of the 
weekend, though Harry and Ron found it quite easy 
to ignore as they spent most of Saturday and Sunday 
studying for Potions on Monday, the exam to which 
Harry was looking forward least and which he was 
sure would be the one that would be the downfall of 
his ambitions to become an Auror. Sure enough, he 
found the written exam difficult, though he thought 
he might have got full marks on the question about 
Polyjuice Potion: He could describe its effects 
extremely accurately, having taken it illegally in his 
second year. 

| 914Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The afternoon practical was not as dreadful as he had 
expected it to be. With Snape absent from the 
proceedings he found that he was much more relaxed 
than he usually was while making potions. Neville, 
who was sitting very near Harry, also looked happier 
than Harry had ever seen him during a Potions class. 
When Professor Marchbanks said, 몮Step away from 
your cauldrons, please, the examination is over,몯 
Harry corked his sample flask feeling that he might 
not have achieved a good grade but that he had, with 
luck, avoided a fail. 

몮Only four exams left,몯 said Parvati Patil wearily as 
they headed back to Gryffindor common room. 

몮Only!몯 said Hermione snappishly. 몮I몭ve got 
Arithmancy and it몭s probably the toughest subject 
there is!몯 

Nobody was foolish enough to snap back, so she was 
unable to vent her spleen on any of them and was 
reduced to telling off some first years for giggling too 
loudly in the common room. 

Harry was determined to perform well in Tuesday몭s 
Care of Magical Creatures exam so as not to let 
Hagrid down. The practical examination took place in 
the afternoon on the lawn on the edge of the 
Forbidden Forest, where students were required to 
correctly identify the knarl hidden among a dozen 
hedgehogs (the trick was to offer them all milk in 
turn: knarls, highly suspicious creatures whose quills 
had many magical properties, generally went berserk 
at what they saw as an attempt to poison them); then 
demonstrate correct handling of a bowtruckle, feed 
and clean a fire-crab without sustaining serious 
burns, and choose, from a wide selection of food, the 
diet they would give a sick unicorn. 



| 915Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry could see Hagrid watching anxiously out of his 
cabin window. When Harry몭s examiner, a plump little 
witch this time, smiled at him and told him he could 
leave, Harry gave Hagrid a fleeting thumbs-up before 
heading back up to the castle. 

The Astronomy theory exam on Wednesday morning 
went well enough; Harry was not convinced he had 
got the names of all of Jupiter몭s moons right, but was 
at least confident that none of them was inhabited by 
mice. They had to wait until evening for their practical 
Astronomy; the afternoon was devoted instead to 
Divination. 

Even by Harry몭s low standards in Divination, the 
exam went very badly. He might as well have tried to 
see moving pictures in the desktop as in the 
stubbornly blank crystal ball; he lost his head 
completely during tea-leaf reading, saying it looked to 
him as though Professor Marchbanks would shortly 
be meeting a round, dark, soggy stranger, and 
rounded off the whole fiasco by mixing up the life and 
head lines on her palm and informing her that she 
ought to have died the previous Tuesday. 

몮Well, we were always going to fail that one,몯 said Ron 
gloomily as they ascended the marble staircase. He 
had just made Harry feel rather better by telling him 
how he told the examiner in detail about the ugly 
man with a wart on his nose in his crystal ball, only 
to look up and realize he had been describing his 
examiner몭s reflection. 

몮We shouldn몭t have taken the stupid subject in the 
first place,몯 said Harry. 

몮Still, at least we can give it up now.몯 



| 916Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Yeah,몯 said Harry. 몮No more pretending we care what 
happens when Jupiter and Uranus get too friendly ...몯 

몮And from now on, I don몭t care if my tea leaves spell 
die, Ron, die 멪 I몭m just chucking them in the bin 
where they belong.몯 

Harry laughed just as Hermione came running up 
behind them. He stopped laughing at once, in case it 
annoyed her. 

몮Well, I think I몭ve done all right in Arithmancy,몯 she 
said, and Harry and Ron both sighed with relief. 몮Just 
time for a quick look over our star charts before 
dinner, then ...몯 

When they reached the top of the Astronomy Tower at 
eleven o몭clock they found a perfect night for 
stargazing, cloudless and still. The grounds were 
bathed in silvery moonlight, and there was a slight 
chill in the air. Each of them set up his or her 
telescope and, when Professor Marchbanks gave the 
word, proceeded to fill in the blank star chart he or 
she had been given. 

Professors Marchbanks and Tofty strolled among 
them, watching as they entered the precise positions 
of the stars and planets they were observing. All was 
quiet except for the rustle of parchment, the 
occasional creak of a telescope as it was adjusted on 
its stand, and the scribbling of many quills. Half an 
hour passed, then an hour; the little squares of 
reflected gold light flickering on the ground below 
started to vanish as lights in the castle windows were 
extinguished. 

As Harry completed the constellation Orion on his 
chart, however, the front doors of the castle opened 
directly below the parapet where he was standing, so 

| 917Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




that light spilled down the stone steps a little way 
across the lawn. Harry glanced down as he made a 
slight adjustment to the position of his telescope and 
saw five or six elongated shadows moving over the 
brightly lit grass before the doors swung shut and the 
lawn became a sea of darkness once more. 

Harry put his eye back to his telescope and refocused 
it, now examining Venus. He looked down at his chart 
to enter the planet there, but something distracted 
him. Pausing with his quill suspended over the 
parchment, he squinted down into the shadowy 
grounds and saw half a dozen figures walking over 
the lawn. If they had not been moving, and the 
moonlight had not been gilding the tops of their 
heads, they would have been indistinguishable from 
the dark ground on which they stood. Even at this 
distance, Harry had a funny feeling that he 
recognized the walk of the squattest among them, 
who seemed to be leading the group. 

He could not think why Umbridge would be taking a 
stroll outside past midnight, much less accompanied 
by five others. Then somebody coughed behind him, 
and he remembered that he was halfway through an 
exam. He had quite forgotten Venus몭s position 멪 
jamming his eye to his telescope, he found it again 
and was again on the point of entering it on his chart 
when, alert for any odd sound, he heard a distant 
knock that echoed through the deserted grounds, 
followed immediately by the muffled barking of a large 
dog. 

He looked up, his heart hammering. There were lights 
on in Hagrid몭s windows and the people he had 
observed crossing the lawn were now silhouetted 
against them. The door opened and he distinctly saw 
six tiny but sharply defined figures walk over the 



| 918Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




threshold. The door closed again and there was 
silence. 

Harry felt very uneasy. He glanced around to see 
whether Ron or Hermione had noticed what he had, 
but Professor Marchbanks came walking behind him 
at that moment, and not wanting to appear as though 
he was sneaking looks at anyone else몭s work, he 
hastily bent over his star chart and pretended to be 
adding notes to it while really peering over the top of 
the parapet toward Hagrid몭s cabin. Figures were now 
moving across the cabin windows, temporarily 
blocking the light. 

He could feel Professor Marchbanks몭s eyes on the 
back of his neck and pressed his eye again to his 
telescope, staring up at the moon though he had 
marked its position an hour ago, but as Professor 
Marchbanks moved on he heard a roar from the 
distant cabin that echoed through the darkness right 
to the top of the Astronomy Tower. Several of the 
people around Harry ducked out from behind their 
telescopes and peered instead in the direction of 
Hagrid몭s cabin. 

Professor Tofty gave another dry little cough. 

몮Try and concentrate, now, boys and girls,몯 he said 
softly. 

Most people returned to their telescopes. Harry looked 
to his left. Hermione was gazing transfixed at 
Hagrid몭s. 

몮Ahem 멪 twenty minutes to go,몯 said Professor Tofty. 

Hermione jumped and returned at once to her star 
chart; Harry looked down at his own and noticed that 



| 919Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




he had mislabelled Venus as Mars. He bent to correct 
it. 

There was a loud BANG from the grounds. Several 
people said 몮Ouch!몯 as they poked themselves in the 
face with the ends of their telescopes, hastening to 
see what was going on below. 

Hagrid몭s door had burst open and by the light flooding 
out of the cabin they saw him quite clearly, a massive 
figure roaring and brandishing his fists, surrounded 
by six people, all of whom, judging by the tiny threads 
of red light they were casting in his direction, seemed 
to be attempting to Stun him. 

몮No!몯 cried Hermione. 

몮My dear!몯 said Professor Tofty in a scandalized voice. 
몮This is an examination!몯 

But nobody was paying the slightest attention to their 
star charts anymore: Jets of red light were still flying 
beside Hagrid몭s cabin, yet somehow they seemed to be 
bouncing off him. He was still upright and still, as far 
as Harry could see, fighting. Cries and yells echoed 
across the grounds; a man yelled, 몮Be reasonable, 
Hagrid!몯 and Hagrid roared, 몮Reasonable be damned, 
yeh won몭 take me like this, Dawlish!몯 

Harry could see the tiny outline of Fang, attempting 
to defend Hagrid, leaping at the wizards surrounding 
him until a Stunning Spell caught him and he fell to 
the ground. Hagrid gave a howl of fury, lifted the 
culprit bodily from the ground, and threw him: The 
man flew what looked like ten feet and did not get up 
again. Hermione gasped, both hands over her mouth; 
Harry looked around at Ron and saw that he too was 
looking scared. None of them had ever seen Hagrid in 
a real temper before... 

| 920Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Look!몯 squealed Parvati, who was leaning over the 
parapet and pointing to the foot of the castle where 
the front doors seemed to have opened again; more 
light had spilled out onto the dark lawn and a single 
long black shadow was now rippling across the lawn. 

몮Now, really!몯 said Professor Tofty anxiously. 몮Only 
sixteen minutes left, you know!몯 

But nobody paid him the slightest attention: They 
were watching the person now sprinting toward the 
battle beside Hagrid몭s cabin. 

몮How dare you!몯 the figure shouted as she ran. 몮How 
dare you!몯 

몮It몭s McGonagall!몯 whispered Hermione. 

몮Leave him alone! Alone, I say!몯 said Professor 
McGonagall몭s voice through the darkness. 몮On what 
grounds are you attacking him? He has done nothing, 
nothing to warrant such 멪 몯 

Hermione, Parvati, and Lavender all screamed. No 
fewer than four Stunners had shot from the figures 
around the cabin toward Professor McGonagall. 
Halfway between cabin and castle the red beams 
collided with her. For a moment she looked luminous, 
illuminated by an eerie red glow, then was lifted right 
off her feet, landed hard on her back, and moved no 
more. 

몮Galloping gargoyles!몯 shouted Professor Tofty, who 
seemed to have forgotten the exam completely. 몮Not 
so much as a warning! Outrageous behavior!몯 

몮COWARDS!몯 bellowed Hagrid, his voice carrying 
clearly to the top of the tower, and several lights 



| 921Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




flickered back on inside the castle. 몮RUDDY 
COWARDS! HAVE SOME O몭 THAT 멪 AN몭 THAT 멪 몯 

몮Oh my 멪 몯 gasped Hermione. 

Hagrid took two massive swipes at his closest 
attackers; judging by their immediate collapse, they 
had been knocked cold. Harry saw him double over 
and thought for a moment that he had finally been 
overcome by a spell, but on the contrary, next 
moment Hagrid was standing again with what 
appeared to be a sack on his back 멪 then Harry 
realized that Fang몭s limp body was draped around his 
shoulders. 

몮Get him, get him!몯 screamed Umbridge, but her 
remaining helper seemed highly reluctant to go within 
reach of Hagrid 몭s fists. Indeed, he was backing away 
so fast he tripped over one of his unconscious 
colleagues and fell over. Hagrid had turned and 
begun to run with Fang still hung around his neck; 
Umbridge sent one last Stunning Spell after him but 
it missed, and Hagrid, running full-pelt toward the 
distant gates, disappeared into the darkness. 

There was a long minute몭s quivering silence, 
everybody gazing openmouthed into the grounds. 
Then Professor Tofty몭s voice said feebly, 몮Um ... five 
minutes to go, everybody ...몯 

Though he had only filled in two-thirds of his chart, 
Harry was desperate for the end of the exam. When it 
came at last he, Ron, and Hermione forced their 
telescopes haphazardly back into their holders and 
dashed back down the spiral staircase. None of the 
students were going to bed 멪 they were all talking 
loudly and excitedly at the foot of the stairs about 
what they had witnessed. 



| 922Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮That evil woman!몯 gasped Hermione, who seemed to 
be having difficulty talking due to rage. 몮Trying to 
sneak up on Hagrid in the dead of night!몯 

몮She clearly wanted to avoid another scene like 
Trelawney몭s,몯 said Ernie Macmillan sagely, squeezing 
over to join them. 

몮Hagrid did well, didn몭t he?몯 said Ron, who looked 
more alarmed than impressed. 몮How come all the 
spells bounced off him?몯 

몮It몭ll be his giant blood,몯 said Hermione shakily. 몮It몭s 
very hard to Stun a giant, they몭re like trolls, really 
tough... But poor Professor McGonagall... Four 
Stunners straight in the chest, and she몭s not exactly 
young, is she?몯 

몮Dreadful, dreadful,몯 said Ernie, shaking his head 
pompously. 몮Well, I몭m off to bed... 몭Night, all ...몯 

People around them were drifting away, still talking 
excitedly about what they had just seen. 

몮At least they didn몭t get to take Hagrid off to 
Azkaban,몯 said Ron. 몮I 몭spect he몭s gone to join 
Dumbledore, hasn몭t he?몯 

몮I suppose so,몯 said Hermione, who looked tearful. 
몮Oh, this is awful, I really thought Dumbledore would 
be back before long, but now we몭ve lost Hagrid too...몯 

They traipsed back to the Gryffindor common room to 
find it full. The commotion out in the grounds had 
woken several people, who had hastened to rouse 
their friends. Seamus and Dean, who had arrived 
ahead of Harry, Ron, and Hermione, were now telling 
everyone what they had heard from the top of the 
Astronomy Tower. 

| 923Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮But why sack Hagrid now?몯 asked Angelina Johnson, 
shaking her head. 몮It몭s not like Trelawney, he몭s been 
teaching much better than usual this year!몯 

몮Umbridge hates part-humans,몯 said Hermione 
bitterly, flopping down into an armchair. 몮She was 
always going to try and get Hagrid out.몯 

몮And she thought Hagrid was putting nifflers in her 
office,몯 piped up Katie Bell. 

몮Oh blimey,몯 said Lee Jordan, covering his mouth. 

몮It몭s me몭s been putting the nifflers in her office, Fred 
and George left me a couple, I몭ve been levitating them 
in through her window...몯 

몮She몭d have sacked him anyway,몯 said Dean. 몮He was 
too close to Dumbledore.몯 

몮That몭s true,몯 said Harry, sinking into an armchair 
beside Hermione 몭s. 

몮I just hope Professor McGonagall몭s all right,몯 said 
Lavender tearfully. 

몮They carried her back up to the castle, we watched 
through the dormitory window,몯 said Colin Creevey. 
몮She didn몭t look very well...몯 

몮Madam Pomfrey will sort her out,몯 said Alicia 
Spinnet firmly. 몮She몭s never failed yet.몯 

It was nearly four in the morning before the common 
room cleared. Harry felt wide awake 멪 the image of 
Hagrid sprinting away into the dark was haunting 
him. He was so angry with Umbridge he could not 
think of a punishment bad enough for her, though 
Ron몭s suggestion of having her fed to a box of starving 
Blast-Ended Skrewts had its merits. He fell asleep 
| 924Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




contemplating hideous revenges and arose from bed 
three hours later feeling distinctly unrested. 



Their final exam, History of Magic, was not to take 
place until that afternoon. Harry would very much 
have liked to go back to bed after breakfast, but he 
had been counting on the morning for a spot of last- 
minute studying, so instead he sat with his head in 
his hands by the common room window, trying hard 
not to doze off as he read through some of the notes 
stacked three-and-a-half feet high that Hermione had 
lent him. 

The fifth years entered the Great Hall at two o몭clock 
and took their places in front of their overturned 
examination papers. Harry felt exhausted. He just 
wanted this to be over so that he could go and sleep. 
Then tomorrow, he and Ron were going to go down to 
the Quidditch pitch 멪 he was going to have a fly on 
Ron몭s broom and savor their freedom from studying... 

몮Turn over your papers,몯 said Professor Marchbanks 
from the front of the Hall, flicking over the giant 
hourglass. 몮You may begin...몯 

Harry stared fixedly at the first question. It was 
several seconds before it occurred to him that he had 
not taken in a word of it; there was a wasp buzzing 
distractingly against one of the high windows. Slowly, 
tortuously, he began to write an answer. 

He was finding it very difficult to remember names 
and kept confusing dates. He simply skipped question 
four: In your opinion, did wand legislation contribute 
to, or lead to better control of, goblin riots of the 
eighteenth century? thinking that he would go back to 
it if he had time at the end. He had a stab at question 
five: How was the Statute of Secrecy breached in 1 749 
and what measures were introduced to prevent a 
| 925Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




recurrence? but had a nagging suspicion that he had 
missed several important points. He had a feeling 
vampires had come into the story somewhere... 

He looked ahead for a question he could definitely 
answer and his eyes alighted upon number ten. 

Describe the circumstances that led to the Formation 
of the International Confederation of Wizards and 
explain why the warlocks of Liechtenstein refused to 
join. 

I know this, Harry thought, though his brain felt 
torpid and slack. He could visualize a heading, in 
Hermione몭s handwriting: The Formation of the 
International Confederation of Wizards. . . He had read 
these notes only this morning... 

He began to write, looking up now and again to check 
the large hourglass on the desk beside Professor 
Marchbanks. He was sitting right behind Parvati 
Patil, whose long dark hair fell below the back of her 
chair. Once or twice he found himself staring at the 
tiny golden lights that glistened in it when she moved 
her head very slightly and had to give his own head a 
little shake to clear it. 

... the first Supreme Mugwump of the International 
Confederation of Wizards was Pierre Bonaccord, but 
his appointment was contested by the Wizarding 
community of Liechtenstein, because 멪 

All around Harry quills were scratching on parchment 
like scurrying, burrowing rats. The sun was very hot 
on the back of his head. What was it that Bonaccord 
had done to offend the wizards of Liechtenstein? 

Harry had a feeling it had something to do with 
trolls... He gazed blankly at the back of Parvati 몭s head 
again. If he could only perform Legilimency and open 
| 926Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




a window in the back of her head and see what it was 
about trolls that had caused the breach between 
Pierre Bonaccord and Liechtenstein... 



Harry closed his eyes and buried his face in his 
hands, so that the glowing red of his eyelids grew 
dark and cool. Bonaccord had wanted to stop troll- 
hunting and give the trolls rights . . . but Liechtenstein 
was having problems with a tribe of particularly 
vicious mountain trolls... That was it... 

He opened his eyes; they stung and watered at the 
sight of the blazing- white parchment. Slowly he wrote 
two lines about the trolls then read through what he 
had done so far. It did not seem very informative or 
detailed, yet he was sure Hermione몭s notes on the 
confederation had gone on for pages and pages... 

He closed his eyes again, trying to see them, trying to 
remember. . . The confederation had met for the first 
time in France, yes, he had written that already... 

Goblins had tried to attend and been ousted... He had 
written that too... 

And nobody from Liechtenstein had wanted to come 



Think, he told himself, his face in his hands, while all 
around him quills scratched out never-ending 
answers and the sand trickled through the hourglass 
at the front... 

He was walking along the cool, dark corridor to the 
Department of Mysteries again, walking with a firm 
and purposeful tread, breaking occasionally into a 
run, determined to reach his destination at last... The 
black door swung open for him as usual, and here he 
was in the circular room with its many doors... 

| 927Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Straight across the stone floor and through the 
second door . . . patches of dancing light on the walls 
and floor and that odd mechanical clicking, but no 
time to explore, he must hurry... 

He jogged the last few feet to the third door, which 
swung open just like the others... 

Once again he was in the cathedral-sized room full of 
shelves and glass spheres... His heart was beating 
very fast now... He was going to get there this time... 
When he reached number ninety-seven he turned left 
and hurried along the aisle between two rows... 

But there was a shape on the floor at the very end, a 
black shape moving upon the floor like a wounded 
animal... Harry몭s stomach contracted with fear ... with 
excitement... 

A voice issued from his own mouth, a high, cold voice 
empty of any human kindness, 몮Take it for me... Lift it 
down, now... I cannot touch it ... but you can...몯 

The black shape upon the floor shifted a little. Harry 
saw a long-fingered white hand clutching a wand rise 
on the end of his own arm . . . heard the high, cold 
voice say, 몮 Cruciol 몯 

The man on the floor let out a scream of pain, 
attempted to stand but fell back, writhing. Harry was 
laughing. He raised his wand, the curse lifted, and 
the figure groaned and became motionless. 

몮Lord Voldemort is waiting...몯 

Very slowly, his arms trembling, the man on the 
ground raised his shoulders a few inches and lifted 
his head. His face was bloodstained and gaunt, 
twisted in pain yet rigid with defiance... 

| 928Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮You몭ll have to kill me,몯 whispered Sirius. 

몮Undoubtedly I shall in the end,몯 said the cold voice. 
몮But you will fetch it for me first, Black... You think 
you have felt pain thus far? Think again... We have 
hours ahead of us and nobody to hear you scream...몯 

But somebody screamed as Voldemort lowered his 
wand again; somebody yelled and fell sideways off a 
hot desk onto the cold stone floor. Harry hit the 
ground and awoke, still yelling, his scar on fire, as the 
Great Hall erupted all around him. 



| 929Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






OUT OF THE FIRE 

몮I몭m not going... I don몭t need the hospital wing... I 
don몭t want ...몯 

He was gibbering, trying to pull away from Professor 
Tofty, who was looking at him with much concern, 
and who had just helped Harry out into the entrance 
hall while the students all around them stared. 

몮I몭m 멪 I몭m fine, sir,몯 Harry stammered, wiping the 
sweat from his face. 몮Really ... I just fell asleep... Had 
a nightmare ...몯 

몮Pressure of examinations!몯 said the old wizard 
sympathetically, patting Harry shakily on the 
shoulder. 몮It happens, young man, it happens! Now, a 
cooling drink of water, and perhaps you will be ready 
to return to the Great Hall? The examination is nearly 
over, but you may be able to round off your last 
answer nicely?몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Harry wildly. 몮I mean ... no ... I몭ve done 멪 
done as much as I can, I think...몯 

| 930Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



몮Very well, very well,몯 said the old wizard gently. 몮I 
shall go and collect your examination paper, and I 
suggest that you go and have a nice lie down...몯 

몮I몭ll do that,몯 said Harry, nodding vigorously. 몮Thanks 
very much.몯 

He waited for the second when the old man몭s heels 
disappeared over the threshold into the Great Hall, 
then ran up the marble staircase and then more 
staircases toward the hospital wing, hurtling along 
the corridors so fast that the portraits he passed 
muttered reproaches, and burst through the double 
doors like a hurricane, causing Madam Pomfrey, who 
had been spooning some bright blue liquid into 
Montague몭s open mouth, to shriek in alarm. 

몮Potter, what do you think you몭re doing?몯 

몮I need to see Professor McGonagall,몯 gasped Harry, 
the breath tearing his lungs. 몮Now ... It몭s urgent...몯 

몮She몭s not here, Potter,몯 said Madam Pomfrey sadly. 
몮She was transferred to St. Mungo몭s this morning. 
Four Stunning Spells straight to the chest at her age? 
It몭s a wonder they didn몭t kill her.몯 

몮She몭s ... gone?몯 said Harry, stunned. 

The bell rang just outside the dormitory, and he 
heard the usual distant rumbling of students starting 
to flood out into the corridors above and below him. 
He remained quite still, looking at Madam Pomfrey. 
Terror was rising inside him. 

There was nobody left to tell. Dumbledore had gone, 
Hagrid had gone, but he had always expected 
Professor McGonagall to be there, irascible and 



| 931Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




inflexible, perhaps, but always dependably, solidly 
present... 

몮I don몭t wonder you몭re shocked, Potter,몯 said Madam 
Pomfrey with a kind of fierce approval in her face. 몮As 
if one of them could have Stunned Minerva 
McGonagall face on by daylight! Cowardice, that몭s 
what it was... Despicable cowardice ... If I wasn몭t 
worried what would happen to you students without 
me, I몭d resign in protest...몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Harry blankly. 

He strode blindly from the hospital wing into the 
teeming corridor where he stood, buffeted by the 
crowd, the panic expanding inside him like poison gas 
so that his head swam and he could not think what to 
do... 

Ron and Hermione, said a voice in his head. 

He was running again, pushing students out of the 
way, oblivious to their angry protests and shouts. He 
sprinted back down two floors and was at the top of 
the marble staircase when he saw them hurrying 
toward him. 

몮Harry!몯 said Hermione at once, looking very 
frightened. 몮What happened? Are you all right? Are 
you ill?몯 

몮Where have you been?몯 demanded Ron. 

몮Come with me,몯 Harry said quickly. 몮Come on, I몭ve 
got to tell you something...몯 

He led them along the first-floor corridor, peering 
through doorways, and at last found an empty 
classroom into which he dived, closing the door 

| 932Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




behind Ron and Hermione the moment they were 
inside and leaning against it, facing them. 

몮Voldemort몭s got Sirius.몯 

몮What?몯 

몮How d몭you 멪 ?몯 

몮Saw it. Just now. When I fell asleep in the exam.몯 

몮But 멪 but where? How?몯 said Hermione, whose face 
was white. 

몮I dunno how,몯 said Harry. 몮But I know exactly where. 
There몭s a room in the Department of Mysteries full of 
shelves covered in these little glass balls, and they몭re 
at the end of row ninety-seven ... He몭s trying to use 
Sirius to get whatever it is he wants from in there... 
He몭s torturing him... Says he몭ll end by killing him ...몯 

Harry found his voice was shaking, as were his knees. 
He moved over to a desk and sat down on it, trying to 
master himself. 

몮How몭re we going to get there?몯 he asked them. 

There was a moment몭s silence. Then Ron said, 몮G-get 
there?몯 

몮Get to the Department of Mysteries, so we can rescue 
Sirius!몯 Harry said loudly. 

몮But 멪 Harry ...몯 said Ron weakly. 

몮What? What?몯 said Harry. 



| 933Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He could not understand why they were both gaping 
at him as though he was asking them something 
unreasonable. 

몮Harry,몯 said Hermione in a rather frightened voice, 

몮er . . . how . . . how did Voldemort get into the Ministry 
of Magic without anybody realizing he was there?몯 

몮How do I know?몯 bellowed Harry. 몮The question is 
how we몭re going to get in there!몯 

몮But ... Harry, think about this,몯 said Hermione, 
taking a step toward him, 몮it몭s five o몭clock in the 
afternoon... The Ministry of Magic must be full of 
workers... How would Voldemort and Sirius have got 
in without being seen? Harry . . . they몭re probably the 
two most wanted wizards in the world... You think 
they could get into a building full of Aurors 
undetected?몯 

몮I dunno, Voldemort used an Invisibility Cloak or 
something!몯 Harry shouted. 몮Anyway, the Department 
of Mysteries has always been completely empty 
whenever I몭ve been 멪 몯 

몮You몭ve never been there, Harry,몯 said Hermione 
quietly. 몮You몭ve dreamed about the place, that몭s all.몯 

몮They몭re not normal dreams!몯 Harry shouted in her 
face, standing up and taking a step closer to her in 
turn. He wanted to shake her. 몮How d몭you explain 
Ron몭s dad then, what was all that about, how come I 
knew what had happened to him?몯 

몮He몭s got a point,몯 said Ron quietly, looking at 
Hermione. 

몮But this is just 멪 just so unlikely\몯 said Hermione 
desperately. 몮Harry, how on earth could Voldemort 

| 934Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




have got hold of Sirius when he몭s been in Grimmauld 
Place all the time?몯 

몮Sirius might몭ve cracked and just wanted some fresh 
air,몯 said Ron, sounding worried. 몮He몭s been 
desperate to get out of that house for ages 멪 몯 

몮But why,몯 Hermione persisted, 몮why on earth would 
Voldemort want to use Sirius to get the weapon, or 
whatever the thing is?몯 

몮I dunno, there could be loads of reasons!몯 Harry 
yelled at her. 몮Maybe Sirius is just someone 
Voldemort doesn몭t care about seeing hurt 멪 몯 

몮You know what, I몭ve just thought of something,몯 said 
Ron in a hushed voice. 몮Sirius몭s brother was a Death 
Eater, wasn몭t he? Maybe he told Sirius the secret of 
how to get the weapon!몯 

몮Yeah 멪 and that몭s why Dumbledore몭s been so keen 
to keep Sirius locked up all the time!몯 said Harry. 

몮Look, I몭m sorry,몯 cried Hermione, 몮but neither of you 
are making sense, and we몭ve got no proof for any of 
this, no proof Voldemort and Sirius are even there 멪 몯 

몮Hermione, Harry몭s seen them!몯 said Ron, rounding 
on her. 

몮Okay,몯 she said, looking frightened yet determined, 
몮I몭ve just got to say this...몯 

몮What?몯 

몮You ... This isn몭t a criticism, Harry! But you do ... 
sort of ... I mean 멪 don몭t you think you몭ve got a bit of 
a 멪 a 멪 saving-people-thing?몯 she said. 



| 935Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He glared at her. 몮And what몭s that supposed to mean, 
a 몬saving-people-thing몭?몯 

몮Well ... you ...몯 She looked more apprehensive than 
ever. 몮I mean . . . last year, for instance ... in the lake 
... during the Tournament ... you shouldn몭t have ... I 
mean, you didn몭t need to save that little Delacour 
girl... You got a bit ... carried away ...몯 

A wave of hot, prickly anger swept Harry몭s body 멪 
how could she remind him of that blunder now? 

"... I mean, it was really great of you and everything,몯 
said Hermione quickly, looking positively petrified at 
the look on Harry몭s face. 몮Everyone thought it was a 
wonderful thing to do 멪 몯 

몮That몭s funny,몯 said Harry in a trembling voice, 
몮because I definitely remember Ron saying I몭d wasted 
time acting the hero... Is that what you think this is? 
You reckon I want to act the hero again?몯 

몮No, no, no!몯 said Hermione, looking aghast. 몮That몭s 
not what I mean at all!몯 

몮Well, spit out what you몭ve got to say, because we몭re 
wasting time here!몯 Harry shouted. 

몮I몭m trying to say 멪 Voldemort knows you, Harry! He 
took Ginny down into the Chamber of Secrets to lure 
you there, it몭s the kind of thing he does, he knows 
you몭re the 멪 the sort of person who몭d go to Sirius몭s 
aid! What if he몭s just trying to get you into the 
Department of Myst 멪 ?몯 

몮Hermione, it doesn몭t matter if he몭s done it to get me 
there or not 멪 they몭ve taken McGonagall to St. 
Mungo몭s, there isn몭t anyone left from the Order at 



| 936Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Hogwarts who we can tell, and if we don몭t go, Sirius is 
dead!몯 



몮But Harry 멪 what if your dream was 멪 was just 
that, a dream?몯 

Harry let out a roar of frustration. Hermione actually 
stepped back from him, looking alarmed. 

몮You don몭t get it!몯 Harry shouted at her. 몮I몭m not 
having nightmares, I몭m not just dreaming! What d몭you 
think all the Occlumency was for, why d몭you think 
Dumbledore wanted me prevented from seeing these 
things? Because they몭re REAL, Hermione 멪 Sirius is 
trapped 멪 I몭ve seen him 멪 Voldemort몭s got him, and 
no one else knows, and that means we몭re the only 
ones who can save him, and if you don몭t want to do it, 
fine, but I몭m going, understand? And if I remember 
rightly, you didn몭t have a problem with my saving - 
people-thing when it was you I was saving from the 
dementors, or몯 멪 he rounded on Ron 멪 몮when it was 
your sister I was saving from the basilisk 멪 몯 

몮I never said I had a problem!몯 said Ron heatedly. 

몮But Harry, you몭ve just said it,몯 said Hermione 
fiercely. 몮Dumbledore wanted you to learn to shut 
these things out of your mind, if you몭d done 
Occlumency properly you몭d never have seen this 멪 몯 

몮IF YOU THINK I몭M JUST GOING TO ACT LIKE I 
HAVEN T SEEN 멪 몯 

몮Sirius told you there was nothing more important 
than you learning to close your mind!몯 

몮WELL, I EXPECT HE몭D SAY SOMETHING 
DIFFERENT IF HE KNEW WHAT I몭D JUST 멪 몯 

| 937Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The classroom door opened. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione whipped around. Ginny walked in, looking 
curious, followed by Luna, who as usual looked as 
though she had drifted in accidentally. 

몮Hi,몯 said Ginny uncertainly. 몮We recognized Harry몭s 
voice 멪 what are you yelling about?몯 

몮Never you mind,몯 said Harry roughly. 

Ginny raised her eyebrows. 

몮There몭s no need to take that tone with me,몯 she said 
coolly. 몮I was only wondering whether I could help.몯 

몮Well, you can몭t,몯 said Harry shortly. 

몮You몭re being rather rude, you know,몯 said Luna 
serenely. 

Harry swore and turned away. The very last thing he 
wanted now was a conversation with Luna Lovegood. 

몮Wait,몯 said Hermione suddenly. 몮Wait ... Harry, they 
can help.몯 

Harry and Ron looked at her. 

몮Listen,몯 she said urgently, 몮Harry, we need to 
establish whether Sirius really has left headquarters 



몮I몭ve told you, I saw 멪 몯 

몮Harry, I몭m begging you, please!몯 said Hermione 
desperately. 몮Please let몭s just check that Sirius isn몭t at 
home before we go charging off to London 멪 if we find 
out he몭s not there then I swear I won몭t try and stop 



| 938Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




you, I몭ll come, I몭ll d-do whatever it takes to try and 
save him 멪 몯 

몮Sirius is being tortured NOW!몯 shouted Harry. 몮We 
haven몭t got time to waste 멪 몯 

몮But if this is a trick of V-Voldemort몭s 멪 Harry, we몭ve 
got to check, we몭ve got to 멪 몯 

몮How?몯 Harry demanded. 몮How몭re we going to check?몯 

몮We몭ll have to use Umbridge몭s fire and see if we can 
contact him,몯 said Hermione, who looked positively 
terrified at the thought. 몮Well draw Umbridge away 
again, but we몭ll need lookouts, and that몭s where we 
can use Ginny and Luna.몯 

Though clearly struggling to understand what was 
going on, Ginny said immediately, 몮Yeah, well do it,몯 
and Luna said, 몮When you say 몬Sirius,몭 are you 
talking about Stubby Boardman?몯 

Nobody answered her. 

몮Okay,몯 Harry said aggressively to Hermione, 몮Okay, if 
you can think of a way of doing this quickly, I몭m with 
you, otherwise I몭m going to the Department of 
Mysteries right now 멪 몯 

몮The Department of Mysteries?몯 said Luna, looking 
mildly surprised. 몮But how are you going to get 
there?몯 

Again, Harry ignored her. 

몮Right,몯 said Hermione, twisting her hands together 
and pacing up and down between the desks. 몮Right ... 
well ... One of us has to go and find Umbridge and 멪 
and send her off in the wrong direction, keep her 

| 939Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




away from her office. They could tell her 멪 I don몭t 
know 멪 that Peeves is up to something awful as 
usual...몯 



몮I몭ll do it,몯 said Ron at once. 몮I몭ll tell her Peeves is 
smashing up the Transfiguration department or 
something, it몭s miles away from her office. Come to 
think of it, I could probably persuade Peeves to do it if 
I met him on the way...몯 

It was a mark of the seriousness of the situation that 
Hermione made no objection to the smashing up of 
the Transfiguration department. 

몮Okay,몯 she said, her brow furrowed as she continued 
to pace. 몮Now, we need to keep students away from 
her office while we force entry, or some Slytherin몭s 
bound to go and tip her off...몯 

몮Luna and I can stand at either end of the corridor,몯 
said Ginny promptly, 몮and warn people not to go 
down there because someone몭s let off a load of 
Garroting Gas.몯 Hermione looked surprised at the 
readiness with which Ginny had come up with this 
lie. Ginny shrugged and said, 몮Fred and George were 
planning to do it before they left.몯 

몮Okay,몯 said Hermione, 몮well then, Harry, you and I 
will be under the Invisibility Cloak, and we몭ll sneak 
into the office and you can talk to Sirius 멪 몯 

몮He몭s not there, Hermione!몯 

몮I mean, you can 멪 can check whether Sirius is at 
home or not while I keep watch, I don몭t think you 
should be in there alone, Lee몭s already proved the 
window몭s a weak spot, sending those nifflers through 
it.몯 

| 940Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Even through his anger and impatience Harry 
recognized Hermione 몭s offer to accompany him into 
Umbridge몭s office as a sign of solidarity and loyalty. 

몮I ... okay, thanks,몯 he muttered. 

몮Right, well, even if we do all of that, I don몭t think 
we몭re going to be able to bank on more than five 
minutes,몯 said Hermione, looking relieved that Harry 
seemed to have accepted the plan, 몮not with Filch and 
the wretched Inquisitorial Squad floating around.몯 

몮Five minutes몭ll be enough,몯 said Harry. 몮C몭mon, let몭s 
go 



몮Now?몯 said Hermione, looking shocked. 

몮Of course now!몯 said Harry angrily. 몮What did you 
think, we몭re going to wait until after dinner or 
something? Hermione, Sirius is being tortured right 
now\몯 

몮I 멪 oh all right,몯 she said desperately. 몮You go and 
get the Invisibility Cloak and we몭ll meet you at the end 
of Umbridge몭s corridor, okay?몯 

Harry did not answer, but flung himself out of the 
room and began to fight his way through the milling 
crowds outside. Two floors up he met Seamus and 
Dean, who hailed him jovially and told him they were 
planning a dusk-till-dawn end-of-exams celebration 
in the common room. Harry barely heard them. He 
scrambled through the portrait hole while they were 
still arguing about how many black-market 
butterbeers they would need and was climbing back 
out of it, the Invisibility Cloak and Sirius몭s knife 
secure in his bag, before they noticed he had left 
them. 



| 941Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Harry, d몭you want to chip in a couple of Galleons? 
Harold Dingle reckons he could sell us some 
firewhisky...몯 

But Harry was already tearing away back along the 
corridor, and a couple of minutes later was jumping 
the last few stairs to join Ron, Hermione, Ginny, and 
Luna, who were huddled together at the end of 
Umbridge몭s corridor. 

몮Got it,몯 he panted. 몮Ready to go, then?몯 

몮All right,몯 whispered Hermione as a gang of loud 
sixth years passed them. 몮So Ron 멪 you go and head 
Umbridge off... Ginny, Luna, if you can start moving 
people out of the corridor. . . Harry and I will get the 
cloak on and wait until the coast is clear...몯 

Ron strode away, his bright red hair visible right to 
the end of the passage. Meanwhile, Ginny몭s equally 
vivid head bobbed between the jostling students 
surrounding them in the other direction, trailed by 
Luna몭s blonde one. 

몮Get over here,몯 muttered Hermione, tugging at 
Harry몭s wrist and pulling him back into a recess 
where the ugly stone head of a medieval wizard stood 
muttering to itself on a column. 몮Are 멪 are you sure 
you몭re okay, Harry? You몭re still very pale...몯 

몮I몭m fine,몯 he said shortly, tugging the Invisibility 
Cloak from out of his bag. In truth, his scar was 
aching, but not so badly that he thought Voldemort 
had yet dealt Sirius a fatal blow. It had hurt much 
worse than this when Voldemort had been punishing 
Avery. . . 



| 942Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Here,몯 he said. He threw the Invisibility Cloak over 
both of them and they stood listening carefully over 
the Latin mumblings of the bust in front of them. 

몮You can몭t come down here!몯 Ginny was calling to the 
crowd. 몮No, sorry, you몭re going to have to go round by 
the swiveling staircase, someone몭s let off Garroting 
Gas just along here 멪 몯 

They could hear people complaining; one surly voice 
said, 몮I can몭t see no gas ...몯 

몮That몭s because it몭s colorless,몯 said Ginny in a 
convincingly exasperated voice, 몮but if you want to 
walk through it, carry on, then we몭ll have your body 
as proof for the next idiot who didn몭t believe us...몯 

Slowly the crowd thinned. The news about the 
Garroting Gas seemed to have spread 멪 people were 
not coming this way anymore. When at last the 
surrounding area was quite clear, Hermione said 
quietly, 몮I think that몭s as good as we몭re going to get, 
Harry 멪 come on, let몭s do it.몯 

Together they moved forward, covered by the cloak. 
Luna was standing with her back to them at the far 
end of the corridor. As they passed Ginny, Hermione 
whispered, 몮Good one ... don몭t forget the signal ...몯 

몮What몭s the signal?몯 muttered Harry, as they 
approached Umbridge몭s door. 

몮A loud chorus of Weasley Is Our King몭 if they see 
Umbridge coming,몯 replied Hermione, as Harry 
inserted the blade of Sirius몭s knife in the crack 
between door and wall. The lock clicked open, and 
they entered the office. 



| 943Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The garish kittens were basking in the late afternoon 
sunshine warming their plates, but otherwise the 
office was as still and empty as last time. Hermione 
breathed a sigh of relief. 

몮I thought she might have added extra security after 
the second niffler...몯 

They pulled off the cloak. Hermione hurried over to 
the window and stood out of sight, peering down into 
the grounds with her wand out. Harry dashed over to 
the fireplace, seized the pot of Floo powder, and threw 
a pinch into the grate, causing emerald flames to 
burst into life there. He knelt down quickly, thrust his 
head into the dancing fire, and cried, 몮Number twelve, 
Grimmauld Place!몯 

His head began to spin as though he had just got off a 
fairground ride though his knees remained firmly 
planted upon the cold office floor. He kept his eyes 
screwed up against the whirling ash, and when the 
spinning stopped, he opened them to find himself 
looking out upon the long, cold kitchen of Grimmauld 
Place. 

There was nobody there. He had expected this, yet 
was not prepared for the molten wave of dread and 
panic that seemed to burst through his stomach floor 
at the sight of the deserted room. 

몮Sirius?몯 he shouted. 몮Sirius, are you there?몯 

His voice echoed around the room, but there was no 
answer except a tiny scuffing sound to the right of the 
fire. 

몮Who몭s there?몯 he called, wondering whether it was 
just a mouse. 



| 944Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Kreacher the house-elf came creeping into view. He 
looked highly delighted about something, though he 
seemed to have recently sustained a nasty injury to 
both hands, which were heavily bandaged. 

몮It몭s the Potter boy몭s head in the fire,몯 Kreacher 
informed the empty kitchen, stealing furtive, oddly 
triumphant glances at Harry. 몮What has he come for, 
Kreacher wonders?몯 

몮Where몭s Sirius, Kreacher?몯 Harry demanded. 

The house-elf gave a wheezy chuckle. 몮Master has 
gone out, Harry Potter.몯 

몮Where몭s he gone? Where몭s he gone, Kreacher?몯 
Kreacher merely cackled. 

몮I몭m warning you!몯 said Harry, fully aware that his 
scope for inflicting punishment upon Kreacher was 
almost nonexistent in this position. 몮What about 
Lupin? Mad-Eye? Any of them, are any of them here?몯 

몮Nobody here but Kreacher!몯 said the elf gleefully, and 
turning away from Harry he began to walk slowly 
toward the door at the end of the kitchen. 몮Kreacher 
thinks he will have a little chat with his Mistress now, 
yes, he hasn몭t had a chance in a long time, Kreacher몭s 
Master has been keeping him away from her 멪 몯 

몮Where has Sirius gone?몯 Harry yelled after the elf. 
몮Kreacher, has he gone to the Department of 
Mysteries?몯 

Kreacher stopped in his tracks. Harry could just 
make out the back of his bald head through the forest 
of chair legs before him. 



| 945Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Master does not tell poor Kreacher where he is 
going,몯 said the elf quietly. 

몮But you know!몯 shouted Harry. 몮Don몭t you? You 
know where he is!몯 

There was a moment몭s silence, then the elf let out his 
loudest cackle yet. 몮Master will not come back from 
the Department of Mysteries!몯 he said gleefully. 
몮Kreacher and his Mistress are alone again!몯 

And he scurried forward and disappeared through the 
door to the hall. 

몮You 멪 !몯 



But before he could utter a single curse or insult, 
Harry felt a great pain at the top of his head. He 
inhaled a lot of ash and, choking, found himself being 
dragged backward through the flames until, with a 
horrible abruptness, he was staring up into the wide, 
pallid face of Professor Umbridge, who had dragged 
him backward out of the fire by the hair and was now 
bending his neck back as far as it would go as though 
she was going to slit his throat. 

몮You think,몯 she whispered, bending Harry몭s neck 
back even farther, so that he was looking up at the 
ceiling above him, 몮that after two nifflers I was going 
to let one more foul, scavenging little creature enter 
my office without my knowledge? I had Stealth 
Sensoring Spells placed all around my doorway after 
the last one got in, you foolish boy. Take his wand,몯 
she barked at someone he could not see, and he felt a 
hand grope inside the chest pocket of his robes and 
remove the wand. 몮Hers too ...몯 



| 946Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry heard a scuffle over by the door and knew that 
Hermione had just had her wand wrested from her as 
well. 

몮I want to know why you are in my office,몯 said 
Umbridge, shaking the fist clutching his hair so that 
he staggered. 

몮I was 멪 trying to get my Firebolt!몯 Harry croaked. 

몮Liar.몯 She shook his head again. 몮Your Firebolt is 
under strict guard in the dungeons, as you very well 
know, Potter. You had your head in my fire. With 
whom have you been communicating?몯 

몮No one 멪 몯 said Harry, trying to pull away from her. 
He felt several hairs part company with his scalp. 

몮LiaA몯 shouted Umbridge. She threw him from her, 
and he slammed into the desk. Now he could see 
Hermione pinioned against the wall by Millicent 
Bulstrode. Malfoy was leaning on the windowsill, 
smirking as he threw Harry몭s wand into the air one- 
handed and then caught it again. 

There was a commotion outside and several large 
Slytherins entered, each gripping Ron, Ginny, Luna, 
and 멪 to Harry몭s bewilderment 멪 Neville, who was 
trapped in a stranglehold by Crabbe and looked in 
imminent danger of suffocation. All four of them had 
been gagged. 

몮Got 몭em all,몯 said Warrington, shoving Ron roughly 
forward into the room. 몮 That one.몯 he poked a thick 
finger at Neville, 몮tried to stop me taking her,몯 he 
pointed at Ginny, who was trying to kick the shins of 
the large Slytherin girl holding her, 몮so I brought him 
along too.몯 



| 947Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Good, good,몯 said Umbridge, watching Ginny몭s 
struggles. 몮Well, it looks as though Hogwarts will 
shortly be a Weasley-free zone, doesn몭t it?몯 

Malfoy laughed loudly and sycophantically. Umbridge 
gave her wide, complacent smile and settled herself 
into a chintz-covered armchair, blinking up at her 
captives like a toad in a flowerbed. 

몮So, Potter,몯 she said. 몮You stationed lookouts around 
my office and you sent this buffoon,몯 she nodded at 
Ron, and Malfoy laughed even louder, 몮to tell me the 
poltergeist was wreaking havoc in the Transfiguration 
department when I knew perfectly well that he was 
busy smearing ink on the eyepieces of all the school 
telescopes, Mr. Filch having just informed me so. 

몮Clearly, it was very important for you to talk to 
somebody. Was it Albus Dumbledore? Or the half- 
breed, Hagrid? I doubt it was Minerva McGonagall, I 
hear she is still too ill to talk to anyone...몯 

Malfoy and a few of the other members of the 
Inquisitorial Squad laughed some more at that. Harry 
found he was so full of rage and hatred he was 
shaking. 

몮It몭s none of your business who I talk to,몯 he snarled. 

Umbridge몭s slack face seemed to tighten. 

몮Very well,몯 she said in her most dangerous and 
falsely sweet voice. 몮Very well, Mr. Potter ... I offered 
you the chance to tell me freely. You refused. I have 
no alternative but to force you. Draco 멪 fetch 
Professor Snape.몯 

Malfoy stowed Harry몭s wand inside his robes and left 
the room smirking, but Harry hardly noticed. He had 

| 948Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




just realized something; he could not believe he had 
been so stupid as to forget it. He had thought that all 
the members of the Order, all those who could help 
him save Sirius, were gone 멪 but he had been wrong. 
There was still a member of the Order of the Phoenix 
at Hogwarts 멪 Snape. 

There was silence in the office except for the 
fidgetings and scufflings resultant from the 
Slytherins몭 efforts to keep Ron and the others under 
control. Ron몭s lip was bleeding onto Umbridge몭s carpet 
as he struggled against Warrington몭s half nelson. 
Ginny was still trying to stamp on the feet of the 
sixth-year girl who had both her upper arms in a tight 
grip. Neville was turning steadily more purple in the 
face while tugging at Crabbe몭s arms, and Hermione 
was attempting vainly to throw Millicent Bulstrode off 
her. Luna, however, stood limply by the side of her 
captor, gazing vaguely out of the window as though 
rather bored by the proceedings. 

Harry looked back at Umbridge, who was watching 
him closely. He kept his face deliberately smooth and 
blank as footsteps were heard in the corridor outside 
and Draco Malfoy came back into the room, holding 
open the door for Snape. 

몮You wanted to see me, Headmistress?몯 said Snape, 
looking around at all the pairs of struggling students 
with an expression of complete indifference. 

몮Ah, Professor Snape,몯 said Umbridge, smiling widely 
and standing up again. 몮Yes, I would like another 
bottle of Veritaserum, as quick as you can, please.몯 

몮You took my last bottle to interrogate Potter,몯 he 
said, observing her coolly through his greasy curtains 
of black hair. 몮Surely you did not use it all? I told you 
that three drops would be sufficient.몯 

| 949Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Umbridge flushed. 

몮You can make some more, can몭t you?몯 she said, her 
voice becoming more sweetly girlish as it always did 
when she was furious. 

몮Certainly,몯 said Snape, his lip curling. 몮It takes a full 
moon cycle to mature, so I should have it ready for 
you in around a month.몯 

몮A month?몯 squawked Umbridge, swelling toadishly. 

몮A month? But I need it this evening, Snape! I have 
just found Potter using my fire to communicate with a 
person or persons unknown!몯 

몮Really?몯 said Snape, showing his first, faint sign of 
interest as he looked around at Harry. 몮Well, it 
doesn몭t surprise me. Potter has never shown much 
inclination to follow school rules.몯 

His cold, dark eyes were boring into Harry몭s, who met 
his gaze unflinchingly, concentrating hard on what he 
had seen in his dream, willing Snape to read it in his 
mind, to understand . . . 

몮I wish to interrogate him!몯 shouted Umbridge angrily, 
and Snape looked away from Harry back into her 
furiously quivering face. 몮I wish you to provide me 
with a potion that will force him to tell me the truth!몯 

몮I have already told you,몯 said Snape smoothly, 몮that I 
have no further stocks of Veritaserum. Unless you 
wish to poison Potter 멪 and I assure you I would 
have the greatest sympathy with you if you did 멪 I 
cannot help you. The only trouble is that most 
venoms act too fast to give the victim much time for 
truth-telling...몯 



| 950Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Snape looked back at Harry, who stared at him, 
frantic to communicate without words. 

Voldemort몭s got Sirius in the Department of Mysteries, 
he thought desperately. Voldemort몭s got Sirius 멪 

몮You are on probation!몯 shrieked Professor Umbridge, 
and Snape looked back at her, his eyebrows slightly 
raised. 몮You are being deliberately unhelpful! I 
expected better, Lucius Malfoy always speaks most 
highly of you! Now get out of my office!몯 

Snape gave her an ironic bow and turned to leave. 
Harry knew his last chance of letting the Order know 
what was going on was walking out of the door. 

몮He몭s got Padfoot!몯 he shouted. 몮He몭s got Padfoot at 
the place where it몭s hidden!몯 

Snape had stopped with his hand on Umbridge몭s door 
handle. 

몮Padfoot?몯 cried Professor Umbridge, looking eagerly 
from Harry to Snape. 몮What is Padfoot? Where what is 
hidden? What does he mean, Snape?몯 

Snape looked around at Harry. His face was 
inscrutable. Harry could not tell whether he had 
understood or not, but he did not dare speak more 
plainly in front of Umbridge. 

몮I have no idea,몯 said Snape coldly. 몮Potter, when I 
want nonsense shouted at me I shall give you a 
Babbling Beverage. And Crabbe, loosen your hold a 
little, if Longbottom suffocates it will mean a lot of 
tedious paperwork, and I am afraid I shall have to 
mention it on your reference if ever you apply for a 
job.몯 



| 951Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He closed the door behind him with a snap, leaving 
Harry in a state of worse turmoil than before: Snape 
had been his very last hope. He looked at Umbridge, 
who seemed to be feeling the same way; her chest was 
heaving with rage and frustration. 

몮Very well,몯 she said, and she pulled out her wand. 
몮Very well ... I am left with no alternative... This is 
more than a matter of school discipline... This is an 
issue of Ministry security... Yes ... yes ...몯 

She seemed to be talking herself into something. She 
was shifting her weight nervously from foot to foot, 
staring at Harry, beating her wand against her empty 
palm and breathing heavily. Harry felt horribly 
powerless without his own wand as he watched her. 

몮You are forcing me, Potter... I do not want to,몯 said 
Umbridge, still moving restlessly on the spot, 몮but 
sometimes circumstances justify the use ... I am sure 
the Minister will understand that I had no choice...몯 

Malfoy was watching her with a hungry expression on 
his face. 

몮The Cruciatus Curse ought to loosen your tongue,몯 
said Umbridge quietly. 

몮No!몯 shrieked Hermione. 몮Professor Umbridge 멪 it몭s 
illegal몯 멪 but Umbridge took no notice. There was a 
nasty, eager, excited look on her face that Harry had 
never seen before. She raised her wand. 

몮The Minister wouldn몭t want you to break the law, 
Professor Umbridge!몯 cried Hermione. 

몮What Cornelius doesn몭t know won몭t hurt him,몯 said 
Umbridge, who was now panting slightly as she 
pointed her wand at different parts of Harry몭s body in 

| 952Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




turn, apparently trying to decide what would hurt the 
most. 몮He never knew I ordered dementors after 
Potter last summer, but he was delighted to be given 
the chance to expel him, all the same...몯 

몮It was you?몯 gasped Harry. 몮 You sent the dementors 
after me?몯 

몮 Somebody had to act,몯 breathed Umbridge, as her 
wand came to rest pointing directly at Harry몭s 
forehead. 몮They were all bleating about silencing you 
somehow 멪 discrediting you 멪 but I was the one who 
actually did something about it... Only you wriggled 
out of that one, didn몭t you, Potter? Not today, though, 
not now ...몯 

And taking a deep breath, she cried, 몮Cruc 멪 몯 

몮NO!몯 shouted Hermione in a cracked voice from 
behind Millicent Bulstrode. 몮No 멪 Harry 멪 Harry, 
well have to tell her!몯 

몮No way!몯 yelled Harry, staring at the little of 
Hermione he could see. 

몮We몭ll have to, Harry, shell force it out of you anyway, 
what몭s ... what몭s the point... ?몯 

And Hermione began to cry weakly into the back of 
Millicent Bulstrode 몭s robes. Millicent stopped trying to 
squash her against the wall immediately and dodged 
out of her way looking disgusted. 

몮Well, well, well!몯 said Umbridge, looking triumphant. 
몮Little Miss Question-All is going to give us some 
answers! Come on then, girl, come on!몯 

몮Er 멪 my 멪 nee 멪 no!몯 shouted Ron through his gag. 



| 953Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Ginny was staring at Hermione as though she had 
never seen her before; Neville, still choking for breath, 
was gazing at her too. But Harry had just noticed 
something. Though Hermione was sobbing 
desperately into her hands, there was no trace of a 
tear... 

몮I몭m 멪 I몭m sorry everyone,몯 said Hermione. 몮But 멪 I 
can몭t stand it 멪 뫃몯 

몮That몭s right, that몭s right, girl!몯 said Umbridge, seizing 
Hermione by the shoulders, thrusting her into the 
abandoned chintz chair and leaning over her. 몮Now 
then ... with whom was Potter communicating just 
now?몯 

몮Well,몯 gulped Hermione into her hands, 몮well, he was 
trying to speak to Professor Dumbledore...몯 

Ron froze, his eyes wide; Ginny stopped trying to 
stamp on her Slytherin captor몭s toes; even Luna 
looked mildly surprised. Fortunately, the attention of 
Umbridge and her minions was focused too 
exclusively upon Hermione to notice these suspicious 
signs. 

몮Dumbledore?몯 said Umbridge eagerly. 몮You know 
where Dumbledore is, then?몯 

몮Well ... no!몯 sobbed Hermione. 몮We몭ve tried the Leaky 
Cauldron in Diagon Alley and the Three Broomsticks 
and even the Hog몭s Head 멪 몯 

몮Idiot girl, Dumbledore won몭t be sitting in a pub when 
the whole Ministry몭s looking for him!몯 shouted 
Umbridge, disappointment etched in every sagging 
line of her face. 



| 954Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮But 멪 but we needed to tell him something 
important!몯 wailed Hermione, holding her hands more 
tightly over her face, not, Harry knew, out of anguish, 
but to disguise the continued absence of tears. 

몮Yes?몯 said Umbridge with a sudden resurgence of 
excitement. 몮What was it you wanted to tell him?몯 

몮We ... we wanted to tell him it몭s r-ready!몯 choked 
Hermione. 

몮What몭s ready?몯 demanded Umbridge, and now she 
grabbed Hermione 몭s shoulders again and shook her 
slightly. 몮What몭s ready, girl?몯 

몮The ... the weapon,몯 said Hermione. 

몮Weapon? Weapon?몯 said Umbridge, and her eyes 
seemed to pop with excitement. 몮You have been 
developing some method of resistance? A weapon you 
could use against the Ministry? On Professor 
Dumbledore몭s orders, of course?몯 

몮Y-y-yes,몯 gasped Hermione. 몮But he had to leave 
before it was finished and n-n-now we몭ve finished it 
for him, and we c-c-can몭t find him t-t-to tell him!몯 

몮What kind of weapon is it?몯 said Umbridge harshly, 
her stubby hands still tight on Hermione 몭s shoulders. 

몮We don몭t r-r-really understand it,몯 said Hermione, 
sniffing loudly. 몮We j-j-just did what P-P-Professor 
Dumbledore told us t-t-to do ...몯 

Umbridge straightened up, looking exultant. 

몮Lead me to the weapon,몯 she said. 



| 955Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몬Tm not showing ... them,몯 said Hermione shrilly, 
looking around at the Slytherins through her fingers. 

몮It is not for you to set conditions,몯 said Professor 
Umbridge harshly. 

몮Fine,몯 said Hermione, now sobbing into her hands 
again, 몮fine ... let them see it, I hope they use it on 
you! In fact, I wish you몭d invite loads and loads of 
people to come and see! Th-that would serve you right 
멪 oh, I몭d love it if the wh-whole school knew where it 
was, and how to u-use it, and then if you annoy any 
of them they몭ll be able to s-sort you out!몯 

These words had a powerful impact on Umbridge. She 
glanced swiftly and suspiciously around at her 
Inquisitorial Squad, her bulging eyes resting for a 
moment on Malfoy, who was too slow to disguise the 
look of eagerness and greed that had appeared on his 
face. 

Umbridge contemplated Hermione for another long 
moment and then spoke in what she clearly thought 
was a motherly voice. 몮All right, dear, let몭s make it 
just you and me ... and we몭ll take Potter too, shall we? 
Get up, now 멪 몯 

몮Professor,몯 said Malfoy eagerly, 몮Professor Umbridge, 

I think some of the squad should come with you to 
look after 멪 몯 

몮I am a fully qualified Ministry official, Malfoy, do you 
really think I cannot manage two wandless teenagers 
alone?몯 asked Umbridge sharply. 몮In any case, it does 
not sound as though this weapon is something that 
schoolchildren should see. You will remain here until 
I return and make sure none of these몯 멪 she gestured 
around at Ron, Ginny, Neville, and Luna 멪 몮escape.몯 



| 956Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮All right,몯 said Malfoy, looking sulky and 
disappointed. 

몮And you two can go ahead of me and show me the 
way,몯 said Umbridge, pointing at Harry and Hermione 
with her wand. 몮Lead on...몯 



| 957Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






FIGHT AND FLIGHT 

Harry had no idea what Hermione was planning, or 
even whether she had a plan. He walked half a pace 
behind her as they headed down the corridor outside 
Umb ridge몭s office, knowing it would look very 
suspicious if he appeared not to know where they 
were going. He did not dare attempt to talk to her; 
Umbridge was walking so closely behind them that he 
could hear her ragged breathing. 

Hermione led the way down the stairs into the 
entrance hall. The din of loud voices and the clatter of 
cutlery on plates echoed from out of the double doors 
to the Great Hall. It seemed incredible to Harry that 
twenty feet away were people who were enjoying 
dinner, celebrating the end of exams, not a care in the 
world... 

Hermione walked straight out of the oak front doors 
and down the stone steps into the balmy evening air. 
The sun was falling toward the tops of the trees in the 
Forbidden Forest now as Hermione marched 
purposefully across the grass, Umbridge jogging to 
| 958Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



keep up. Their long dark shadows rippled over the 
grass behind them like cloaks. 



몮It몭s hidden in Hagrid몭s hut, is it?몯 said Umbridge 
eagerly in Harry몭s ear. 

몮Of course not,몯 said Hermione scathingly. 몮Hagrid 
might have set it off accidentally.몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Umbridge, whose excitement seemed to be 
mounting. 몮Yes, he would have done, of course, the 
great half-breed oaf...몯 

She laughed. Harry felt a strong urge to swing around 
and seize her by the throat, but resisted. His scar was 
throbbing in the soft evening air but it had not yet 
burned white-hot, as he knew it would if Voldemort 
had moved in for the kill... 

몮Then ... where is it?몯 asked Umbridge, with a hint of 
uncertainty in her voice as Hermione continued to 
stride toward the forest. 

몮In there, of course,몯 said Hermione, pointing into the 
dark trees. 몮It had to be somewhere that students 
weren몭t going to find it accidentally, didn몭t it?몯 

몮Of course,몯 said Umbridge, though she sounded a 
little apprehensive now. 몮Of course ... very well, then 
... you two stay ahead of me.몯 

몮Can we have your wand, then, if we몭re going first?몯 
Harry asked her. 

몮No, I don몭t think so, Mr. Potter,몯 said Umbridge 
sweetly, poking him in the back with it. 몮The Ministry 
places a rather higher value on my life than yours, I몭m 
afraid.몯 

| 959Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




As they reached the cool shade of the first trees, 

Harry tried to catch Hermione 몭s eye; walking into the 
forest without wands seemed to him to be more 
foolhardy than anything they had done so far this 
evening. She, however, merely gave Umbridge a 
contemptuous glance and plunged straight into the 
trees, moving at such a pace that Umbridge, with her 
shorter legs, had difficulty in keeping up. 

몮Is it very far in?몯 Umbridge asked, as her robe ripped 
on a bramble. 

몮Oh yes,몯 said Hermione. 몮Yes, it몭s well hidden.몯 

Harry몭s misgivings increased. Hermione was not 
taking the path they had followed to visit Grawp, but 
the one he had followed three years ago to the lair of 
the monster Aragog. Hermione had not been with him 
on that occasion; he doubted she had any idea what 
danger lay at the end of it. 

몮Er 멪 are you sure this is the right way?몯 he asked 
her pointedly. 

몮Oh yes,몯 she said in a steely voice, crashing through 
the undergrowth with what he thought was a wholly 
unnecessary amount of noise. Behind them, 

Umbridge tripped over a fallen sapling. Neither of 
them paused to help her up again; Hermione merely 
strode on, calling loudly over her shoulder, 몮It몭s a bit 
further in!몯 

몮Hermione, keep your voice down,몯 Harry muttered, 
hurrying to catch up with her. 몮Anything could be 
listening in here 멪 몯 

몮I want us heard,몯 she answered quietly, as Umbridge 
jogged noisily after them. 몮You몭ll see...몯 



| 960Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




They walked on for what seemed a long time, until 
they were once again so deep into the forest that the 
dense tree canopy blocked out all light. Harry had the 
feeling he had had before in the forest, one of being 
watched by unseen eyes... 

몮How much further?몯 demanded Umbridge angrily 
from behind him. 

몮Not far now!몯 shouted Hermione, as they emerged 
into a dim, dank clearing. 몮Just a little bit 멪 몯 

An arrow flew through the air and landed with a 
menacing thud in the tree just over her head. The air 
was suddenly full of the sound of hooves. Harry could 
feel the forest floor trembling; Umbridge gave a little 
scream and pushed him in front of her like a shield 멪 

He wrenched himself free of her and turned. Around 
fifty centaurs were emerging on every side, their bows 
raised and loaded, pointing at Harry, Hermione, and 
Umbridge, who backed slowly into the center of the 
clearing, Umbridge uttering odd little whimpers of 
terror. Harry looked sideways at Hermione. She was 
wearing a triumphant smile. 

몮Who are you?몯 said a voice. 

Harry looked left. The chestnut-bodied centaur called 
Magorian was walking toward them out of the circle; 
his bow, like the others몭, was raised. On Harry몭s right, 
Umbridge was still whimpering, her wand trembling 
violently as she pointed it at the advancing centaur. 

몮I asked you who are you, human,몯 said Magorian 
roughly. 

몮I am Dolores Umbridge!몯 said Umbridge in a high- 
pitched, terrified voice. 몮Senior Undersecretary to the 

| 961Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Minister of Magic and Headmistress and High 
Inquisitor of Hogwarts!몯 



몮You are from the Ministry of Magic?몯 said Magorian, 
as many of the centaurs in the surrounding circle 
shifted restlessly. 

몮That몭s right!몯 said Umbridge in an even higher voice. 
몮So be very careful! By the laws laid down by the 
Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical 
Creatures, any attack by half-breeds such as 
yourselves on a human 멪 몯 

몮 What did you call us?몯 shouted a wild-looking black 
centaur, whom Harry recognized as Bane. There was 
a great deal of angry muttering and tightening of 
bowstrings around them. 

몮Don몭t call them that!몯 Hermione said furiously, but 
Umbridge did not appear to have heard her. Still 
pointing her shaking wand at Magorian, she 
continued, 몮Law Fifteen B states clearly that 몬Any 
attack by a magical creature who is deemed to have 
near-human intelligence, and therefore considered 
responsible for its actions 멪 몭 몯 

몮 몬Near-human intelligence몭?몯 repeated Magorian, as 
Bane and several others roared with rage and pawed 
the ground. 몮We consider that a great insult, human! 
Our intelligence, thankfully, far outstrips your own 멪 



몮What are you doing in our forest?몯 bellowed the 
hard-faced gray centaur whom Harry and Hermione 
had seen on their last trip into the forest. 몮Why are 
you here?몯 

몮Your forest?몯 said Umbridge, shaking now not only 
with fright but also, it seemed, with indignation. 몮I 

| 962Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




would remind you that you live here only because the 
Ministry of Magic permits you certain areas of land 멪 



An arrow flew so close to her head that it caught at 
her mousy hair in passing. She let out an earsplitting 
scream and threw her hands over her head while 
some of the centaurs bellowed their approval and 
others laughed raucously. The sound of their wild, 
neighing laughter echoing around the dimly lit 
clearing and the sight of their pawing hooves was 
extremely unnerving. 

몮Whose forest is it now, human?몯 bellowed Bane. 

몮Filthy half-breeds!몯 she screamed, her hands still 
tight over her head. 몮Beasts! Uncontrolled animals!몯 

몮Be quiet!몯 shouted Hermione, but it was too late 멪 
Umbridge pointed her wand at Magorian and 
screamed, 몮 Incarcerousl몯 

Ropes flew out of midair like thick snakes, wrapping 
themselves tightly around the centaur몭s torso and 
trapping his arms. He gave a cry of rage and reared 
onto his hind legs, attempting to free himself, while 
the other centaurs charged. 

Harry grabbed Hermione and pulled her to the 
ground. Facedown on the forest floor he knew a 
moment of terror as hooves thundered around him, 
but the centaurs leapt over and around them, 
bellowing and screaming with rage. 

몮Nooooo!몯 he heard Umbridge shriek. 몮Noooooo ... I 
am Senior Undersecretary ... you cannot ... unhand 
me, you animals ... nooooo!몯 



| 963Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He saw a flash of red light and knew that she had 
attempted to Stun one of them 멪 then she screamed 
very loudly. Lifting his head a few inches, Harry saw 
that Umbridge had been seized from behind by Bane 
and lifted high into the air, wriggling and yelling with 
fright. Her wand fell from her hand to the ground and 
Harry몭s heart leapt, if he could just reach it 멪 

But as he stretched out a hand toward it, a centaur몭s 
hoof descended upon the wand and it broke cleanly in 
half. 

몮Now!몯 roared a voice in Harry몭s ear and a thick hairy 
arm descended from thin air and dragged him 
upright; Hermione too had been pulled to her feet. 
Over the plunging, many-colored backs and heads of 
the centaurs Harry saw Umbridge being borne away 
through the trees by Bane, still screaming nonstop; 
her voice grew fainter and fainter until they could no 
longer hear it over the trampling of hooves 
surrounding them. 

몮And these?몯 said the hard-faced, gray centaur 
holding Hermione. 

몮They are young,몯 said a slow, doleful voice from 
behind Harry. 몮We do not attack foals.몯 

몮They brought her here, Ronan,몯 replied the centaur 
who had such a firm grip on Harry. 몮And they are not 
so young... He is nearing manhood, this one...몯 

He shook Harry by the neck of his robes. 

몮Please,몯 said Hermione breathlessly, 몮please, don몭t 
attack us, we don몭t think like her, we aren몭t Ministry 
of Magic employees! We only came in here because we 
hoped you몭d drive her off for us 멪 몯 



| 964Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry knew at once from the look on the face of the 
gray centaur holding Hermione that she had made a 
terrible mistake in saying this. The gray centaur 
threw back his head, his back legs stamping 
furiously, and bellowed, 몮You see, Ronan? They 
already have the arrogance of their kind! So we were 
to do your dirty work, were we, human girl? We were 
to act as your servants, drive away your enemies like 
obedient hounds?몯 

몮No!몯 said Hermione in a horrorstruck squeak. 몮Please 
멪 I didn몭t mean that! I just hoped you몭d be able to 멪 
to help us 멪 몯 

But she seemed to be going from bad to worse. 

몮We do not help humans!몯 snarled the centaur 
holding Harry, tightening his grip and rearing a little 
at the same time, so that Harry몭s feet left the ground 
momentarily. 몮We are a race apart and proud to be 
so... We will not permit you to walk from here, 
boasting that we did your bidding!몯 

몮We몭re not going to say anything like that!몯 Harry 
shouted. 몮We know you didn몭t do anything because 
we wanted you to 멪 몯 

But nobody seemed to be listening to him. A bearded 
centaur toward the back of the crowd shouted, 몮They 
came here unasked, they must pay the 
consequences!몯 

A roar of approval met these words and a dun-colored 
centaur shouted, 몮They can join the woman!몯 

몮You said you didn몭t hurt the innocent!몯 shouted 
Hermione, real tears sliding down her face now. 몮We 
haven몭t done anything to hurt you, we haven몭t used 



| 965Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




wands or threats, we just want to go back to school, 
please let us go back 멪 몯 

몮We are not all like the traitor Firenze, human girl!몯 
shouted the gray centaur, to more neighing roars of 
approval from his fellows. 몮Perhaps you thought us 
pretty talking horses? We are an ancient people who 
will not stand wizard invasions and insults! We do not 
recognize your laws, we do not acknowledge your 
superiority, we are 멪 몯 

But they did not hear what else centaurs were, for at 
that moment there came a crashing noise on the edge 
of the clearing so loud that all of them 멪 Harry, 
Hermione, and the fifty or so centaurs filling the 
clearing 멪 looked around. Harry몭s centaur let him fall 
to the ground again as his hands flew to his bow and 
quiver of arrows; Hermione had been dropped too, 
and Harry hurried toward her as two thick tree 
trunks parted ominously and the monstrous form of 
Grawp the giant appeared in the gap. 

The centaurs nearest him backed into those behind. 
The clearing was now a forest of bows and arrows 
waiting to be fired, all pointing upward at the 
enormous grayish face now looming over them from 
just beneath the thick canopy of branches. Grawp 몭s 
lopsided mouth was gaping stupidly. They could see 
his bricklike yellow teeth glimmering in the half-light, 
his dull sludge-colored eyes narrowed as he squinted 
down at the creatures at his feet. Broken ropes trailed 
from both ankles. 

He opened his mouth even wider. 

몮Hagger.몯 

Harry did not know what 몮hagger몯 meant, or what 
language it was from, nor did he much care 멪 he was 

| 966Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




watching Grawp 몭s feet, which were almost as long as 
Harry몭s whole body. Hermione gripped his arm tightly; 
the centaurs were quite silent, staring up at the giant, 
whose huge, round head moved from side to side as 
he continued to peer amongst them as though looking 
for something he had dropped. 

몮Haggeii몯 he said again, more insistently. 

몮Get away from here, giant!몯 called Magorian. 몮You 
are not welcome among us!몯 

These words seemed to make no impression 
whatsoever on Grawp. He stooped a little (the 
centaurs몭 arms tensed on their bows) and then 
bellowed, 몮HAGGER!몯 

A few of the centaurs looked worried now. Hermione, 
however, gave a gasp. 

몮Harry!몯 she whispered. 몮I think he몭s trying to say 
몬Hagrid몭!몯 



At this precise moment Grawp caught sight of them, 
the only two humans in a sea of centaurs. He lowered 
his head another foot or so, staring intently at them. 
Harry could feel Hermione shaking as Grawp opened 
his mouth wide again and said, in a deep, rumbling 
voice, 몮Hermy.몯 

몮Goodness,몯 said Hermione, gripping Harry몭s arm so 
tightly it was growing numb and looking as though 
she was about to faint, 몮he 멪 he remembered!몯 

몮HERMY!몯 roared Grawp. 몮WHERE HAGGER?몯 

몮I don몭t know!몯 squealed Hermione, terrified. 몮I몭m 
sorry, Grawp, I don몭t know!몯 



| 967Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮GRAWP WANT HAGGER!몯 



One of the giant몭s massive hands swooped down upon 
them 멪 Hermione let out a real scream, ran a few 
steps backward and fell over. Wandless, Harry braced 
himself to punch, kick, bite, or whatever else it took 
as the hand flew toward him and knocked a snow- 
white centaur off his legs. 

It was what the centaurs had been waiting for 멪 
Grawp몭s outstretched fingers were a foot from Harry 
when fifty arrows went soaring through the air at the 
giant, peppering his enormous face, causing him to 
howl with pain and rage and straighten up again, 
rubbing his face with his enormous hands, breaking 
off the arrow shafts but forcing the heads in still 
deeper. 

He yelled and stamped his enormous feet and the 
centaurs scattered out of the way. Pebble-sized 
droplets of Grawp몭s blood showered Harry as he 
pulled Hermione to her feet and the pair of them ran 
as fast as they could for the shelter of the trees. Once 
there they looked back 멪 Grawp was snatching 
blindly at the centaurs as blood ran all down his face; 
they were retreating in disorder, galloping away 
through the trees on the other side of the clearing. As 
Harry and Hermione watched, Grawp gave another 
roar of fury and plunged after them, smashing more 
trees aside as he went. 

몮Oh no,몯 said Hermione, quaking so badly that her 
knees gave way. 몮Oh, that was horrible. And he might 
kill them all...몯 

몮I몭m not that fussed, to be honest,몯 said Harry 
bitterly. 



| 968Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The sounds of the galloping centaurs and the 
blundering giant were growing fainter and fainter. As 
Harry listened to them his scar gave another great 
throb and a wave of terror swept over him. 

They had wasted so much time 멪 they were even 
further from rescuing Sirius than they had been when 
he had had the vision. Not only had Harry managed 
to lose his wand but they were stuck in the middle of 
the Forbidden Forest with no means of transport 
whatsoever. 

몮Smart plan,몯 he spat at Hermione, keen to release 
some of his fury. 몮Really smart plan. Where do we go 
from here?몯 

몮We need to get back up to the castle,몯 said Hermione 
faintly. 

몮By the time we몭ve done that, Sirius 11 probably be 
dead!몯 said Harry, kicking a nearby tree in temper; 
there was a high-pitched chattering overhead and he 
looked up to see an angry bowtruckle flexing its long 
twiglike fingers at him. 

몮Well, we can몭t do anything without wands,몯 said 
Hermione hopelessly, dragging herself up again. 
몮Anyway, Harry, how exactly were you planning to get 
all the way to London?몯 

몮Yeah, we were just wondering that,몯 said a familiar 
voice from behind her. 

Harry and Hermione moved instinctively together, 
peering through the trees, as Ron came into sight, 
with Ginny, Neville, and Luna hurrying along behind 
him. All of them looked a little the worse for wear 멪 
there were several long scratches running the length 
of Ginny몭s cheek, a large purple lump was swelling 
| 969Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




above Neville몭s right eye, Ron몭s lip was bleeding worse 
than ever 멪 but all were looking rather pleased with 
themselves. 

몮So,몯 said Ron, pushing aside a low-hanging branch 
and holding out Harry몭s wand, 몮had any ideas?몯 

몮How did you get away?몯 asked Harry in amazement, 
taking his wand from Ron. 

몮Couple of Stunners, a Disarming Charm, Neville 
brought off a really nice little Impediment Jinx,몯 said 
Ron airily, now handing back Hermione몭s wand too. 
몮But Ginny was best, she got Malfoy 멪 Bat-Bogey Hex 
멪 it was superb, his whole face was covered in the 
great flapping things. Anyway, we saw you heading 
into the forest out of the window and followed. 

What몭ve you done with Umbridge?몯 

몮She got carried away,몯 said Harry. 몮By a herd of 
centaurs.몯 

몮And they left you behind?몯 asked Ginny, looking 
astonished. 

몮No, they got chased off by Grawp,몯 said Harry. 

몮Who몭s Grawp?몯 Luna asked interestedly. 

몮Hagrid몭s little brother,몯 said Ron promptly. 몮Anyway, 
never mind that now. Harry, what did you find out in 
the fire? Has You-Know-Who got Sirius or 멪 ?몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Harry, as his scar gave another painful 
prickle, 몮and I몭m sure Sirius is still alive, but I can몭t 
see how we몭re going to get there to help him.몯 

They all fell silent, looking rather scared. The problem 
facing them seemed insurmountable. 

| 970Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Well, we몭ll have to fly, won몭t we?몯 said Luna in the 
closest thing to a matter-of-fact voice Harry had ever 
heard her use. 



몮Okay,몯 said Harry irritably, rounding on her, 몮first of 
all, 몮we몭 aren몭t doing anything if you몭re including 
yourself in that, and second of all, Ron몭s the only one 
with a broomstick that isn몭t being guarded by a 
security troll, so 멪 몯 

몮I몭ve got a broom!몯 said Ginny. 

몮Yeah, but you몭re not coming,몯 said Ron angrily. 

몮Excuse me, but I care what happens to Sirius as 
much as you do!몯 said Ginny, her jaw set so that her 
resemblance to Fred and George was suddenly 
striking. 

몮You몭re too 멪 몯 Harry began. 

몮I몭m three years older than you were when you fought 
You-Know-Who over the Sorcerer몭s Stone,몯 she said 
fiercely, 몮and it몭s because of me Malfoy몭s stuck back 
in Umbridge몭s office with giant flying bogeys attacking 
him 멪 몯 



몮Yeah, but 멪 몯 

몮We were all in the D.A. together,몯 said Neville quietly. 
몮It was all supposed to be about fighting You-Know- 
Who, wasn몭t it? And this is the first chance we몭ve had 
to do something real 멪 or was that all just a game or 
something?몯 

몮No 멪 of course it wasn몭t 멪 몯 said Harry impatiently. 

몮Then we should come too,몯 said Neville simply. 몮We 
want to help.몯 

| 971Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮That몭s right,몯 said Luna, smiling happily. 



Harry몭s eyes met Ron몭s. He knew that Ron was 
thinking exactly what he was: If he could have chosen 
any members of the D.A. in addition to himself, Ron, 
and Hermione to join him in the attempt to rescue 
Sirius, he would not have picked Ginny, Neville, or 
Luna. 

몮Well, it doesn몭t matter anyway,몯 said Harry 
frustratedly, 몮because we still don몭t know how to get 
there 멪 몯 

몮I thought we몭d settled that?몯 said Luna maddeningly. 
몮We몭re flying!몯 

몮Look,몯 said Ron, barely containing his anger, 몮you 
might be able to fly without a broomstick but the rest 
of us can몭t sprout wings whenever we 멪 몯 

몮There are other ways of flying than with 
broomsticks,몯 said Luna serenely. 

몮I s몭pose we몭re going to ride on the back of the Kacky 
Snorgle or whatever it is?몯 Ron demanded. 

몮The Crumple-Horned Snorkack can몭t fly,몯 said Luna 
in a dignified voice, 몮but they can, and Hagrid says 
they몭re very good at finding places their riders are 
looking for.몯 

Harry whirled around. Standing between two trees, 
their white eyes gleaming eerily, were two thestrals, 
watching the whispered conversation as though they 
understood every word. 

몮Yes!몯 he whispered, moving toward them. They 
tossed their reptilian heads, throwing back long black 
manes, and Harry stretched out his hand eagerly and 

| 972Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




patted the nearest one몭s shining neck. How could he 
ever have thought them ugly? 

몮Is it those mad horse things?몯 said Ron uncertainly, 
staring at a point slightly to the left of the thestral 
Harry was patting. 몮Those ones you can몭t see unless 
you몭ve watched someone snuff it?몯 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry. 

몮How many?몯 

몮Just two.몯 

몮Well, we need three,몯 said Hermione, who was still 
looking a little shaken, but determined just the same. 

몮Four, Hermione,몯 said Ginny, scowling. 

몮I think there are six of us, actually,몯 said Luna 
calmly, counting. 

몮Don몭t be stupid, we can몭t all go!몯 said Harry angrily. 
몮Look, you three몯 멪 he pointed at Neville, Ginny, and 
Luna 멪 몮you몭re not involved in this, you몭re not 멪 몯 

They burst into more protests. His scar gave another, 
more painful, twinge. Every moment they delayed was 
precious; he did not have time to argue. 

몮Okay, fine, it몭s your choice,몯 he said curtly. 몮But 
unless we can find more thestrals you몭re not going to 
be able 멪 몯 

몮Oh, more of them will come,몯 said Ginny confidently, 
who like Ron was squinting in quite the wrong 
direction, apparently under the impression that she 
was looking at the horses. 



| 973Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮What makes you think that?몯 

몮Because in case you hadn몭t noticed, you and 
Hermione are both covered in blood,몯 she said coolly, 
몮and we know Hagrid lures thestrals with raw meat, 
so that몭s probably why these two turned up in the 
first place...몯 

Harry felt a soft tug on his robes at that moment and 
looked down to see the closest thestral licking his 
sleeve, which was damp with Grawp몭s blood. 

몮Okay, then,몯 he said, a bright idea occurring. 몮Ron 
and I will take these two and go ahead, and Hermione 
can stay here with you three and she몭ll attract more 
thestrals 멪 몯 

몮I몭m not staying behind!몯 said Hermione furiously. 

몮There몭s no need,몯 said Luna, smiling. 몮Look, here 
come more now... You two must really smell...몯 

Harry turned. No fewer than six or seven thestrals 
were picking their way through the trees now, their 
great leathery wings folded tight to their bodies, their 
eyes gleaming through the darkness. He had no 
excuse now... 

몮All right,몯 he said angrily, 몮pick one and get on, 
then.몯 



| 974Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 





THE DEPARTMENT OF MYSTERIES 

Harry wound his hand tightly into the mane of the 
nearest thestral, placed a foot on a stump nearby, 
and scrambled clumsily onto the horse몭s silken back. 
It did not object, but twisted its head around, fangs 
bared, and attempted to continue its eager licking of 
his robes. 

He found there was a way of lodging his knees behind 
the wing joints that made him feel more secure and 
looked around at the others. Neville had heaved 
himself over the back of the next thestral and was 
now attempting to swing one short leg over the 
creature몭s back. Luna was already in place, sitting 
sidesaddle and adjusting her robes as though she did 
this every day. Ron, Hermione, and Ginny, however, 
were still standing motionless on the spot, 
openmouthed and staring. 

몮What?몯 he said. 

몮How몭re we supposed to get on?몯 said Ron faintly. 
몮When we can몭t see the things?몯 

| 975Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



몮Oh it몭s easy,몯 said Luna, sliding obligingly from her 
thestral and marching over to him, Hermione, and 
Ginny. 몮Come here...몯 

She pulled them over to the other thestrals standing 
around and one by one managed to help them onto 
the backs of their mounts. All three looked extremely 
nervous as she wound their hands into the horses몭 
manes and told them to grip tightly before getting 
back onto her own steed. 

몮This is mad,몯 Ron said faintly, moving his free hand 
gingerly up and down his horse몭s neck. 몮Mad ... if I 
could just see it 멪 몯 

몮You몭d better hope it stays invisible,몯 said Harry 
darkly. 몮We all ready, then?몯 

They all nodded and he saw five pairs of knees tighten 
beneath their robes. 

몮Okay ...몯 

He looked down at the back of his thestral몭s glossy 
black head and swallowed. 몮Ministry of Magic, 
visitors몭 entrance, London, then,몯 he said uncertainly. 
몮Er ... if you know ... where to go ...몯 

For a moment his thestral did nothing at all. Then, 
with a sweeping movement that nearly unseated him, 
the wings on either side extended, the horse crouched 
slowly and then rocketed upward so fast and so 
steeply that Harry had to clench his arms and legs 
tightly around the horse to avoid sliding backward 
over its bony rump. He closed his eyes and put his 
face down into the horse몭s silky mane as they burst 
through the topmost branches of the trees and soared 
out into a bloodred sunset. 



| 976Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry did not think he had ever moved so fast: The 
thestral streaked over the castle, its wide wings 
hardly beating. The cooling air was slapping Harry몭s 
face; eyes screwed up against the rushing wind, he 
looked around and saw his five fellows soaring along 
behind him, each of them bent as low as possible into 
the neck of their thestral to protect themselves from 
its slipstream. 

They were over the Hogwarts grounds, they had 
passed Hogsmeade. Harry could see mountains and 
gullies below them. In the falling darkness Harry saw 
small collections of lights as they passed over more 
villages, then a winding road on which a single car 
was beetling its way home through the hills... 

몮This is bizarre!몯 Harry heard Ron yell from 
somewhere behind him, and he imagined how it must 
feel to be speeding along at this height with no visible 
means of support... 

Twilight fell: The sky turned to a light, dusky purple 
littered with tiny silver stars, and soon it was only the 
lights of Muggle towns that gave them any clue of how 
far from the ground they were or how very fast they 
were traveling. Harry몭s arms were wrapped tightly 
around his horse몭s neck as he willed it to go even 
faster. How much time had elapsed since he had seen 
Sirius lying on the Department of Mysteries floor? 

How much longer would he be able to resist 
Voldemort? All Harry knew for sure was that Sirius 
had neither done as Voldemort wanted, nor died, for 
he was convinced that either outcome would cause 
him to feel Voldemort몭s jubilation or fury course 
through his own body, making his scar sear as 
painfully as it had on the night Mr. Weasley was 
attacked... 



| 977Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




On they flew through the gathering darkness; Harry몭s 
face felt stiff and cold, his legs numb from gripping 
the thestral몭s sides so tightly, but he did not dare 
shift positions lest he slip... He was deaf from the 
thundering in his ears and his mouth was dry and 
frozen from the rush of cold night air. He had lost all 
sense of how far they had come; all his faith was in 
the beast below him, still streaking purposefully 
through the night, barely flapping its wings as it sped 
ever onward... 

If they were too late . . . 

He몭s still alive, he몭s still fighting, I can feel it... 

If Voldemort decided Sirius was not going to crack ... 
I몭d know... 

Harry몭s stomach gave a jolt. The thestral몭s head was 
suddenly pointing toward the ground and he had 
actually slid forward a few inches along its neck. They 
were descending at last... He heard one of the girls 
shriek behind him and twisted around dangerously 
but could see no sign of a falling body. . . Presumably 
they had received a shock from the change of 
position, just as he had... 

And now bright orange lights were growing larger and 
rounder on all sides. They could see the tops of 
buildings, streams of headlights like luminous insect 
eyes, squares of pale yellow that were windows. Quite 
suddenly, it seemed, they were hurtling toward the 
pavement. Harry gripped the thestral with every last 
ounce of his strength, braced for a sudden impact, 
but the horse touched the dark ground as lightly as a 
shadow and Harry slid from his back, looking around 
at the street where the overflowing dumpster still 
stood a short way from the vandalized telephone box, 
| 978Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




both drained of color in the flat orange glare of the 
streetlights. 

Ron landed a short way away and toppled 
immediately off his thestral onto the pavement. 

몮Never again,몯 he said, struggling to his feet. He made 
as though to stride away from his thestral, but, 
unable to see it, collided with its hindquarters and 
almost fell over again. 몮Never, ever again ... that was 
the worst 멪 몯 

Hermione and Ginny touched down on either side of 
him. Both slid off their mounts a little more gracefully 
than Ron, though with similar expressions of relief at 
being back on firm ground. Neville jumped down, 
shaking, but Luna dismounted smoothly. 

몮Where do we go from here, then?몯 she asked Harry in 
a politely interested voice, as though this was all a 
rather interesting day- trip. 

몮Over here,몯 he said. He gave his thestral a quick, 
grateful pat, then led the way quickly to the battered 
telephone box and opened the door. 몮Come on\몯 he 
urged the others as they hesitated. 

Ron and Ginny marched in obediently; Hermione, 
Neville, and Luna squashed themselves in after them; 
Harry took one glance back at the thestrals, now 
foraging for scraps of rotten food inside the dumpster, 
then forced himself into the box after Luna. 

몮Whoever몭s nearest the receiver, dial six two four four 
two!몯 he said. 

Ron did it, his arm bent bizarrely to reach the dial. As 
it whirred back into place the cool female voice 



| 979Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




sounded inside the box, 몮Welcome to the Ministry of 
Magic. Please state your name and business.몯 

몮Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, Hermione Granger,몯 

Harry said very quickly, 몮Ginny Weasley, Neville 
Longbottom, Luna Lovegood ... We몭re here to save 
someone, unless your Ministry can do it first!몯 

몮Thank you,몯 said the cool female voice. 몮Visitors, 
please take the badges and attach them to the front of 
your robes.몯 

Half a dozen badges slid out of the metal chute where 
returned coins usually appeared. Hermione scooped 
them up and handed them mutely to Harry over 
Ginny 몭s head; he glanced at the topmost one. 

HARRY POTTER 
RESCUE MISSION 

몮Visitor to the Ministry, you are required to submit to 
a search and present your wand for registration at the 
security desk, which is located at the far end of the 
Atrium.몯 

몮Fine!몯 Harry said loudly, as his scar gave another 
throb. 몮Now can we move?몯 

The floor of the telephone box shuddered and the 
pavement rose up past the glass windows of the 
telephone box. The scavenging thestrals were sliding 
out of sight, blackness closed over their heads, and 
with a dull grinding noise they sank down into the 
depths of the Ministry of Magic. 

A chink of soft golden light hit their feet and, 
widening, rose up their bodies. Harry bent his knees 



| 980Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




and held his wand as ready as he could in such 
cramped conditions, peering through the glass to see 
whether anybody was waiting for them in the Atrium, 
but it seemed to be completely empty. The light was 
dimmer than it had been by day. There were no fires 
burning under the mantelpieces set into the walls, 
but he saw as the lift slid smoothly to a halt that 
golden symbols continued to twist sinuously in the 
dark blue ceiling. 

몮The Ministry of Magic wishes you a pleasant 
evening,몯 said the woman몭s voice. 

The door of the telephone box burst open; Harry 
toppled out of it, followed by Neville and Luna. The 
only sound in the Atrium was the steady rush of 
water from the golden fountain, where jets from the 
wands of the witch and wizard, the point of the 
centaur몭s arrow, the tip of the goblin몭s hat, and the 
house-elf몭s ears continued to gush into the 
surrounding pool. 

몮Come on,몯 said Harry quietly and the six of them 
sprinted off down the hall, Harry in the lead, past the 
fountain, toward the desk where the security man 
who had weighed Harry몭s wand had sat and which 
was now deserted. 

Harry felt sure that there ought to be a security 
person there, sure that their absence was an ominous 
sign, and his feeling of foreboding increased as they 
passed through the golden gates to the lifts. He 
pressed the nearest down button and a lift clattered 
into sight almost immediately, the golden grilles slid 
apart with a great, echoing clanking, and they dashed 
inside. Harry stabbed the number nine button, the 
grilles closed with a bang, and the lift began to 
descend, jangling and rattling. Harry had not realized 
how noisy the lifts were on the day that he had come 
| 981Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




with Mr. Weasley 멪 he was sure that the din would 
raise every security person within the building, yet 
when the lift halted, the cool female voice said, 
몮Department of Mysteries,몯 and the grilles slid open 
again, they stepped out into the corridor where 
nothing was moving but the nearest torches, 
flickering in the rush of air from the lift. 

Harry turned toward the plain black door. After 
months and months of dreaming about it, he was 
here at last... 

몮Let몭s go,몯 he whispered, and he led the way down the 
corridor, Luna right behind him, gazing around with 
her mouth slightly open. 

몮Okay, listen,몯 said Harry, stopping again within six 
feet of the door. 몮Maybe . . . maybe a couple of people 
should stay here as a 멪 as a lookout, and 멪 몯 

몮And how몭re we going to let you know something몭s 
coming?몯 asked Ginny, her eyebrows raised. 몮You 
could be miles away.몯 

몮We몭re coming with you, Harry,몯 said Neville. 

몮Let몭s get on with it,몯 said Ron firmly. 

Harry still did not want to take them all with him, but 
it seemed he had no choice. He turned to face the 
door and walked forward. Just as it had in his dream, 
it swung open and he marched forward, leading the 
others over the threshold. 

They were standing in a large, circular room. 
Everything in here was black including the floor and 
ceiling 멪 identical, unmarked, handle-less black 
doors were set at intervals all around the black walls, 
interspersed with branches of candles whose flames 
| 982Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




burned blue, their cool, shimmering light reflected in 
the shining marble floor so that it looked as though 
there was dark water underfoot. 

몮Someone shut the door,몯 Harry muttered. 

He regretted giving this order the moment Neville had 
obeyed it. Without the long chink of light from the 
torch-lit corridor behind them, the place became so 
dark that for a moment the only things they could see 
were the bunches of shivering blue flames on the 
walls and their ghostly reflections in the floor below. 

In his dream, Harry had always walked purposefully 
across this room to the door immediately opposite the 
entrance and walked on. But there were around a 
dozen doors here. Just as he was gazing ahead at the 
doors opposite him, trying to decide which was the 
right one, there was a great rumbling noise and the 
candles began to move sideways. The circular wall 
was rotating. 

Hermione grabbed Harry몭s arm as though frightened 
the floor might move too, but it did not. For a few 
seconds the blue flames around them were blurred to 
resemble neon lines as the wall sped around and 
then, quite as suddenly as it had started, the 
rumbling stopped and everything became stationary 
once again. 

Harry몭s eyes had blue streaks burned into them; it 
was all he could see. 

몮What was that about?몯 whispered Ron fearfully. 

몮I think it was to stop us knowing which door we 
came in from,몯 said Ginny in a hushed voice. 



| 983Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry realized at once that she was right: He could no 
sooner have picked the exit from the other doors than 
located an ant upon the jet-black floor. Meanwhile, 
the door through which they needed to proceed could 
be any of the dozen surrounding them. 

몮How몭re we going to get back out?몯 said Neville 
uncomfortably. 

몮Well, that doesn몭t matter now,몯 said Harry forcefully, 
blinking to try and erase the blue lines from his 
vision, and clutching his wand tighter than ever. 몮We 
won몭t need to get out till we몭ve found Sirius 멪 몯 

몮Don몭t go calling for him, though!몯 Hermione said 
urgently, but Harry had never needed her advice less; 
his instinct was to keep as quiet as possible for the 
time being. 

몮Where do we go, then, Harry?몯 Ron asked. 

몮I don몭t 멪 몯 Harry began. He swallowed. 몮In the 
dreams I went through the door at the end of the 
corridor from the lifts into a dark room 멪 that몭s this 
one 멪 and then I went through another door into a 
room that kind of ... glitters. We should try a few 
doors,몯 he said hastily. 몮I몭ll know the right way when I 
see it. C몭mon.몯 

He marched straight at the door now facing him, the 
others following close behind him, set his left hand 
against its cool, shining surface, raised his wand, 
ready to strike the moment it opened, and pushed. It 
swung open easily. 

After the darkness of the first room, the lamps 
hanging low on golden chains from this ceiling gave 
the impression that this long rectangular room was 
much brighter, though there were no glittering, 

| 984Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




shimmering lights such as Harry had seen in his 
dreams. The place was quite empty except for a few 
desks and, in the very middle of the room, an 
enormous glass tank of deep-green water, big enough 
for all of them to swim in, which contained a number 
of pearly white objects that were drifting around lazily 
in the liquid. 

몮What몭re those things?몯 whispered Ron. 

몮Dunno,몯 said Harry. 

몮Are they fish?몯 breathed Ginny. 

몮Aquavirius maggots!몯 said Luna excitedly. 몮Dad said 
the Ministry were breeding 멪 몯 

몮No,몯 said Hermione. She sounded odd. She moved 
forward to look through the side of the tank. 몮They몭re 
brains.몯 

몮Brains?몯 

몮Yes ... I wonder what they몭re doing with them?몯 

Harry joined her at the tank. Sure enough, there 
could be no mistake now that he saw them at close 
quarters. Glimmering eerily they drifted in and out of 
sight in the depths of the green water, looking 
something like slimy cauliflowers. 

몮Let몭s get out of here,몯 said Harry. 몮This isn몭t right, we 
need to try another door 멪 몯 

몮There are doors here too,몯 said Ron, pointing around 
the walls. Harry몭s heart sank; how big was this place? 



| 985Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮In my dream I went through that dark room into the 
second one,몯 he said. 몮I think we should go back and 
try from there.몯 

So they hurried back into the dark, circular room; the 
ghostly shapes of the brains were now swimming 
before Harry몭s eyes instead of the blue candle flames. 

몮Wait!몯 said Hermione sharply, as Luna made to close 
the door of the brain room behind them. 몮 FlagrateV몭 

She drew with her wand in midair and a fiery X 
appeared on the door. No sooner had the door clicked 
shut behind them than there was a great rumbling, 
and once again the wall began to revolve very fast, but 
now there was a great red-gold blur in amongst the 
faint blue, and when all became still again, the fiery 
cross still burned, showing the door they had already 
tried. 

몮Good thinking,몯 said Harry. 몮Okay, let몭s try this one 



Again he strode directly at the door facing him and 
pushed it open, his wand still raised, the others at his 
heels. 

This room was larger than the last, dimly lit and 
rectangular, and the center of it was sunken, forming 
a great stone pit some twenty feet below them. They 
were standing on the topmost tier of what seemed to 
be stone benches running all around the room and 
descending in steep steps like an amphitheater, or the 
courtroom in which Harry had been tried by the 
Wizengamot. Instead of a chained chair, however, 
there was a raised stone dais in the center of the 
lowered floor, and upon this dais stood a stone 
archway that looked so ancient, cracked, and 
crumbling that Harry was amazed the thing was still 
| 986Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




standing. Unsupported by any surrounding wall, the 
archway was hung with a tattered black curtain or 
veil which, despite the complete stillness of the cold 
surrounding air, was fluttering very slightly as though 
it had just been touched. 

몮Who몭s there?몯 said Harry, jumping down onto the 
bench below. There was no answering voice, but the 
veil continued to flutter and sway. 

몮Careful!몯 whispered Hermione. 

Harry scrambled down the benches one by one until 
he reached the stone bottom of the sunken pit. His 
footsteps echoed loudly as he walked slowly toward 
the dais. The pointed archway looked much taller 
from where he stood now than when he had been 
looking down on it from above. Still the veil swayed 
gently, as though somebody had just passed through 
it. 

몮Sirius?몯 Harry spoke again, but much more quietly 
now that he was nearer. 

He had the strangest feeling that there was someone 
standing right behind the veil on the other side of the 
archway. Gripping his wand very tightly, he edged 
around the dais, but there was nobody there. All that 
could be seen was the other side of the tattered black 
veil. 

몮Let몭s go,몯 called Hermione from halfway up the stone 
steps. 몮This isn몭t right, Harry, come on, let몭s go...몯 

She sounded scared, much more scared than she had 
in the room where the brains swam, yet Harry 
thought the archway had a kind of beauty about it, 
old though it was. The gently rippling veil intrigued 



| 987Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




him; he felt a very strong inclination to climb up on 
the dais and walk through it. 

몮Harry, let몭s go, okay?몯 said Hermione more forcefully. 

몮Okay,몯 he said, but he did not move. He had just 
heard something. There were faint whispering, 
murmuring noises coming from the other side of the 
veil. 

몮What are you saying?몯 he said very loudly, so that 
the words echoed all around the surrounding stone 
benches. 

몮Nobody몭s talking, Harry!몯 said Hermione, now moving 
over to him. 

몮Someone몭s whispering behind there,몯 he said, moving 
out of her reach and continuing to frown at the veil. 

몮Is that you, Ron?몯 

몮I몭m here, mate,몯 said Ron, appearing around the side 
of the archway. 

몮Can몭t anyone else hear it?몯 Harry demanded, for the 
whispering and murmuring was becoming louder; 
without really meaning to put it there, he found his 
foot was on the dais. 

몮I can hear them too,몯 breathed Luna, joining them 
around the side of the archway and gazing at the 
swaying veil. 몮There are people in there\몯 

몮What do you mean, 몬in there몭?몯 demanded Hermione, 
jumping down from the bottom step and sounding 
much angrier than the occasion warranted. 몮There 
isn몭t any 몬in there,몭 it몭s just an archway, there몭s no 
room for anybody to be there 멪 Harry, stop it, come 
away 멪 몯 

| 988Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




She grabbed his arm and pulled, but he resisted. 

몮Harry, we are supposed to be here for Sirius!몯 she 
said in a high-pitched, strained voice. 

몮Sirius,몯 Harry repeated, still gazing, mesmerized, at 
the continuously swaying veil. 몮Yeah ...몯 

And then something slid back into place in his brain: 
Sirius, captured, bound, and tortured, and he was 
staring at this archway. . . 

He took several paces back from the dais and 
wrenched his eyes from the veil. 

몮Let몭s go,몯 he said. 

몮That몭s what I몭ve been trying to 멪 well, come on, 
then!몯 said Hermione, and she led the way back 
around the dais. On the other side, Ginny and Neville 
were staring, apparently entranced, at the veil too. 
Without speaking, Hermione took hold of Ginny몭s 
arm, Ron Neville몭s, and they marched them firmly 
back to the lowest stone bench and clambered all the 
way back up to the door. 

몮What d몭you reckon that arch was?몯 Harry asked 
Hermione as they regained the dark circular room. 

몮I don몭t know, but whatever it was, it was dangerous,몯 
she said firmly, again inscribing a fiery cross upon 
the door. 

Once more the wall spun and became still again. 
Harry approached a door at random and pushed. It 
did not move. 

몮What몭s wrong?몯 said Hermione. 



| 989Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮It몭s ... locked ...몯 said Harry, throwing his weight at 
the door, but it did not budge. 



몮This is it, then, isn몭t it?몯 said Ron excitedly, joining 
Harry in the attempt to force the door open. 몮Bound 
to be!몯 

몮Get out of the way!몯 said Hermione sharply. She 
pointed her wand at the place where a lock would 
have been on an ordinary door and said, 몮Alohomora\몯 

Nothing happened. 

몮Sirius몭s knife!몯 said Harry, and he pulled it out from 
inside his robes and slid it into the crack between the 
door and the wall. The others all watched eagerly as 
he ran it from top to bottom, withdrew it, and then 
flung his shoulder again at the door. It remained as 
firmly shut as ever. What was more, when Harry 
looked down at the knife, he saw that the blade had 
melted. 

몮Right, we몭re leaving that room,몯 said Hermione 
decisively. 

몮But what if that몭s the one?몯 said Ron, staring at it 
with a mixture of apprehension and longing. 

몮It can몭t be, Harry could get through all the doors in 
his dream,몯 said Hermione, marking the door with 
another fiery cross as Harry replaced the now-useless 
handle of Sirius몭s knife in his pocket. 

몮You know what could be in there?몯 said Luna 
eagerly, as the wall started to spin yet again. 

몮Something blibbering, no doubt,몯 said Hermione 
under her breath, and Neville gave a nervous little 
laugh. 

| 990Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The wall slid back to a halt and Harry, with a feeling 
of increasing desperation, pushed the next door open. 

몮This is it!몯 

He knew it at once by the beautiful, dancing, 
diamond-sparkling light. As Harry몭s eyes became 
more accustomed to the brilliant glare he saw clocks 
gleaming from every surface, large and small, 
grandfather and carriage, hanging in spaces between 
the bookcases or standing on desks ranging the 
length of the room, so that a busy, relentless ticking 
filled the place like thousands of minuscule, 
marching footsteps. The source of the dancing, 
diamond-bright light was a towering crystal bell jar 
that stood at the far end of the room. 

몮This way!몯 

Harry몭s heart was pumping frantically now that he 
knew they were on the right track. He led the way 
forward down the narrow space between the lines of 
the desks, heading, as he had done in his dream, for 
the source of the light, the crystal bell jar quite as tall 
as he was that stood on a desk and appeared to be 
full of a billowing, glittering wind. 

몮Oh look).몯 said Ginny, as they drew nearer, pointing 
at the very heart of the bell jar. 

Drifting along in the sparkling current inside was a 
tiny, jewel-bright egg. As it rose in the jar it cracked 
open and a hummingbird emerged, which was carried 
to the very top of the jar, but as it fell on the draft, its 
feathers became bedraggled and damp again, and by 
the time it had been borne back to the bottom of the 
jar it had been enclosed once more in its egg. 



| 991Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Keep going!몯 said Harry sharply, because Ginny 
showed signs of wanting to stop and watch the egg몭s 
progress back into a bird. 

몮You dawdled enough by that old arch!몯 she said 
crossly, but followed him past the bell jar to the only 
door behind it. 

몮This is it,몯 Harry said again, and his heart was now 
pumping so hard and fast he felt it must interfere 
with his speech. 몮It몭s through here 멪 몯 

He glanced around at them all. They had their wands 
out and looked suddenly serious and anxious. He 
looked back at the door and pushed. It swung open. 

They were there, they had found the place: high as a 
church and full of nothing but towering shelves 
covered in small, dusty, glass orbs. They glimmered 
dully in the light issuing from more candle brackets 
set at intervals along the shelves. Like those in the 
circular room behind them, their flames were burning 
blue. The room was very cold. 

Harry edged forward and peered down one of the 
shadowy aisles between two rows of shelves. He could 
not hear anything nor see the slightest sign of 
movement. 

몮You said it was row ninety-seven,몯 whispered 
Hermione. 

몮Yeah,몯 breathed Harry, looking up at the end of the 
closest row. Beneath the branch of blue-glowing 
candles protruding from it glimmered the silver figure 
53 . 

몮We need to go right, I think,몯 whispered Hermione, 
squinting to the next row. 몮Yes ... that몭s fifty-four...몯 

| 992Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Keep your wands out,몯 Harry said softly. 

They crept forward, staring behind them as they went 
on down the long alleys of shelves, the farther ends of 
which were in near total darkness. Tiny, yellowing 
labels had been stuck beneath each glass orb on the 
shelf. Some of them had a weird, liquid glow; others 
were as dull and dark within as blown lightbulbs. 

They passed row eighty-four ... eighty-five ... Harry 
was listening hard for the slightest sound of 
movement, but Sirius might be gagged now, or else 
unconscious ... or, said an unbidden voice inside his 
head, he might already be dead... 

I몭d have felt it, he told himself, his heart now 
hammering against his Adam몭s apple. I몭d already 
know... 

몮Ninety-seven!몯 whispered Hermione. 

They stood grouped around the end of the row, gazing 
down the alley beside it. There was nobody there. 

몮He몭s right down at the end,몯 said Harry, whose 
mouth had become slightly dry. 몮You can몭t see 
properly from here...몯 

And he led them forward, between the towering rows 
of glass balls, some of which glowed softly as they 
passed... 

몮He should be near here,몯 whispered Harry, convinced 
that every step was going to bring the ragged form of 
Sirius into view upon the darkened floor. 몮Anywhere 
here ... really close ...몯 

몮Harry?몯 said Hermione tentatively, but he did not 
want to respond. His mouth was very dry now. 

| 993Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Somewhere about ... here ...몯 he said. 



They had reached the end of the row and emerged 
into more dim candlelight. There was nobody there at 
all. All was echoing, dusty silence. 

몮He might be ...몯 Harry whispered hoarsely, peering 
down the alley next door. 몮Or maybe ...몯 He hurried to 
look down the one beyond that. 

몮Harry?몯 said Hermione again. 

몮What?몯 he snarled. 

몮I ... I don몭t think Sirius is here.몯 

Nobody spoke. Harry did not want to look at any of 
them. He felt sick. He did not understand why Sirius 
was not here. He had to be here. This was where he, 
Harry, had seen him... 

He ran up the space at the end of the rows, staring 
down them. Empty aisle after empty aisle flickered 
past. He ran the other way, back past his staring 
companions. There was no sign of Sirius anywhere, 
nor any hint of a struggle. 

몮Harry?몯 Ron called. 

몮What?몯 

He did not want to hear what Ron had to say, did not 
want to hear Ron tell him he had been stupid, or 
suggest that they ought to go back to Hogwarts. But 
the heat was rising in his face and he felt as though 
he would like to skulk down here in the darkness for 
a long while before facing the brightness of the Atrium 
above and the others몭 accusing stares... 



| 994Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Have you seen this?몯 said Ron. 



몮What?몯 said Harry, but eagerly this time 멪 it had to 
be a sign that Sirius had been there, a clue 멪 he 
strode back to where they were all standing, a little 
way down row ninety-seven, but found nothing except 
Ron staring at one of the dusty glass spheres on the 
shelves. 

몮What?몯 Harry repeated glumly. 

몮It몭s 멪 it몭s got your name on,몯 said Ron. 

Harry moved a little closer. Ron was pointing at one of 
the small glass spheres that glowed with a dull inner 
light, though it was very dusty and appeared not to 
have been touched for many years. 

몮My name?몯 said Harry blankly. 

He stepped forward. Not as tall as Ron, he had to 
crane his neck to read the yellowish label affixed to 
the shelf right beneath the dusty glass ball. In spidery 
writing was written a date of some sixteen years 
previously, and below that: 

S.P.T. to A.P.W.B.D. 

Dark Lord 

and (?) Harry Potter 

Harry stared at it. 

몮What is it?몯 Ron asked, sounding unnerved. 몮What몭s 
your name doing down here?몯 

He glanced along at the other labels on that stretch of 
shelf. 

| 995Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몬Tm not here,몯 he said, sounding perplexed. 몮None of 
the rest of us are here...몯 

몮Harry, I don몭t think you should touch it,몯 said 
Hermione sharply, as he stretched out his hand. 

몮Why not?몯 he said. 몮It몭s something to do with me, 
isn몭t it?몯 

몮Don몭t, Harry,몯 said Neville suddenly. Harry looked 
around at him. Neville몭s round face was shining 
slightly with sweat. He looked as though he could not 
take much more suspense. 

몮It몭s got my name on,몯 said Harry. 

And feeling slightly reckless, he closed his fingers 
around the dusty ball몭s surface. He had expected it to 
feel cold, but it did not. On the contrary, it felt as 
though it had been lying in the sun for hours, as 
though the glow of light within was warming it. 
Expecting, even hoping, that something dramatic was 
going to happen, something exciting that might make 
their long and dangerous journey worthwhile after all, 
he lifted the glass ball down from its shelf and stared 
at it. 

Nothing whatsoever happened. The others moved in 
closer around Harry, gazing at the orb as he brushed 
it free of the clogging dust. 

And then, from right behind them, a drawling voice 
said, 몮Very good, Potter. Now turn around, nice and 
slowly, and give that to me.몯 



| 996Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




35 




BEYOND THE VEIL 

Black shapes were emerging out of thin air all around 
them, blocking their way left and right; eyes glinted 
through slits in hoods, a dozen lit wand tips were 
pointing directly at their hearts. Ginny gave a gasp of 
horror. 

몮To me, Potter,몯 repeated the drawling voice of Lucius 
Malfoy as he held out his hand, palm up. 

Harry몭s insides plummeted sickeningly. They were 
trapped and outnumbered two to one. 

몮To me,몯 said Malfoy yet again. 

몮Where몭s Sirius?몯 Harry said. 

Several of the Death Eaters laughed. A harsh female 
voice from the midst of the shadowy figures to Harry몭s 
left said triumphantly, 몮The Dark Lord always 
knows!몯 



| 997Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



몮Always,몯 echoed Malfoy softly. 몮Now, give me the 
prophecy, Potter.몯 



몮I want to know where Sirius is!몯 

몮I want to know where Sirius is!몯 mimicked the woman 
to his left. 

She and her fellow Death Eaters had closed in so that 
they were mere feet away from Harry and the others, 
the light from their wands dazzling Harry몭s eyes. 

몮You몭ve got him,몯 said Harry, ignoring the rising panic 
in his chest, the dread he had been fighting since 
they had first entered the ninety-seventh row. 몮He몭s 
here. I know he is.몯 

몮The little baby woke up fwightened and fort what it 
dweamed was twoo,몯 said the woman in a horrible, 
mock-baby voice. Harry felt Ron stir beside him. 

몮Don몭t do anything,몯 he muttered. 몮Not yet 멪 몯 

The woman who had mimicked him let out a raucous 
scream of laughter. 

몮You hear him? You hear him? Giving instructions to 
the other children as though he thinks of fighting us!몯 

몮Oh, you don몭t know Potter as I do, Bellatrix,몯 said 
Malfoy softly. 몮He has a great weakness for heroics; 
the Dark Lord understands this about him. Now give 
me the prophecy, Potter.몯 

몮I know Sirius is here,몯 said Harry, though panic was 
causing his chest to constrict and he felt as though 
he could not breathe properly. 몮I know you몭ve got 
him!몯 

| 998Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




More of the Death Eaters laughed, though the woman 
still laughed loudest of all. 

몮It몭s time you learned the difference between life and 
dreams, Potter,몯 said Malfoy. 몮Now give me the 
prophecy, or we start using wands.몯 

몮Go on, then,몯 said Harry, raising his own wand to 
chest height. As he did so, the five wands of Ron, 
Hermione, Neville, Ginny, and Luna rose on either 
side of him. The knot in Harry몭s stomach tightened. If 
Sirius really was not here, he had led his friends to 
their deaths for no reason at all... 

But the Death Eaters did not strike. 

몮Hand over the prophecy and no one need get hurt,몯 
said Malfoy coolly. 

It was Harry몭s turn to laugh. 

몮Yeah, right!몯 he said. 몮I give you this 멪 prophecy, is 
it? And you몭ll just let us skip off home, will you?몯 

The words were hardly out of his mouth when the 
female Death Eater shrieked, 몮Accio Proph 멪 몯 

Harry was just ready for her. He shouted 몮Protego\몯 
before she had finished her spell, and though the 
glass sphere slipped to the tips of his fingers he 
managed to cling on to it. 

몮Oh, he knows how to play, little bitty baby Potter,몯 
she said, her mad eyes staring through the slits in 
her hood. 몮Very well, then 멪 몯 

몮I TOLD YOU, NO!몯 Lucius Malfoy roared at the 
woman. 몮If you smash it 멪 !몯 



| 999Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry몭s mind was racing. The Death Eaters wanted 
this dusty spun-glass sphere. He had no interest in it. 
He just wanted to get them all out of this alive, make 
sure that none of his friends paid a terrible price for 
his stupidity ... 

The woman stepped forward, away from her fellows, 
and pulled off her hood. Azkaban had hollowed 
Bellatrix Lestrange몭s face, making it gaunt and skull- 
like, but it was alive with a feverish, fanatical glow. 

몮You need more persuasion?몯 she said, her chest 
rising and falling rapidly. 몮Very well 멪 take the 
smallest one,몯 she ordered the Death Eaters beside 
her. 몮Let him watch while we torture the little girl. I몭ll 
do it.몯 

Harry felt the others close in around Ginny. He 
stepped sideways so that he was right in front of her, 
the prophecy held up to his chest. 

몮You몭ll have to smash this if you want to attack any of 
us,몯 he told Bellatrix. 몮I don몭t think your boss will be 
too pleased if you come back without it, will he?몯 

She did not move; she merely stared at him, the tip of 
her tongue moistening her thin mouth. 

몮So,몯 said Harry, 몮what kind of prophecy are we 
talking about anyway?몯 

He could not think what to do but to keep talking. 
Neville몭s arm was pressed against his, and he could 
feel him shaking. He could feel one of the other몭s 
quickened breath on the back of his head. He was 
hoping they were all thinking hard about ways to get 
out of this, because his mind was blank. 



| lOOOHarry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮What kind of prophecy?몯 repeated Bellatrix, the grin 
fading from her face. 몮You jest, Harry Potter.몯 



몮Nope, not jesting,몯 said Harry, his eyes flicking from 
Death Eater to Death Eater, looking for a weak link, a 
space through which they could escape. 몮How come 
Voldemort wants it?몯 

Several of the Death Eaters let out low hisses. 

몮You dare speak his name?몯 whispered Bellatrix. 

몮Yeah,몯 said Harry, maintaining his tight grip on the 
glass ball, expecting another attempt to bewitch it 
from him. 몮Yeah, IVe got no problem saying Vol 멪 몯 

몮Shut your mouth!몯 Bellatrix shrieked. 몮You dare 
speak his name with your unworthy lips, you dare 
besmirch it with your half-blood몭s tongue, you dare 멪 



몮Did you know he몭s a half-blood too?몯 said Harry 
recklessly. Hermione gave a little moan in his ear. 
몮Voldemort? Yeah, his mother was a witch but his 
dad was a Muggle 멪 or has he been telling you lot 
he몭s pureblood?몯 

몮STUPEF 멪 몯 

몮iVO!몯 

A jet of red light had shot from the end of Bellatrix 
Lestrange몭s wand, but Malfoy had deflected it. His 
spell caused hers to hit the shelf a foot to the left of 
Harry and several of the glass orbs there shattered. 

Two figures, pearly white as ghosts, fluid as smoke, 
unfurled themselves from the fragments of broken 
glass upon the floor and each began to speak. Their 

| lOOlHarry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




voices vied with each other, so that only fragments of 
what they were saying could be heard over Malfoy and 
Bellatrix몭s shouts. 



"... at the Solstice will come a new ...몯 said the figure 
of an old, bearded man. 

몮DO NOT ATTACK! WE NEED THE PROPHECY!몯 

몮He dared 멪 he dares 멪 몯 shrieked Bellatrix 
incoherently. 몮 멪 He stands there 멪 filthy half-blood 



몮WAIT UNTIL WEVE GOT THE PROPHECY!몯 bawled 
Malfoy. 

"... and none will come after ...몯 said the figure of a 
young woman. 

The two figures that had burst from the shattered 
spheres had melted into thin air. Nothing remained of 
them or their erstwhile homes but fragments of glass 
upon the floor. They had, however, given Harry an 
idea. The problem was going to be conveying it to the 
others. 

몮You haven몭t told me what몭s so special about this 
prophecy I몭m supposed to be handing over,몯 he said, 
playing for time. He moved his foot slowly sideways, 
feeling around for someone else몭s. 

몮Do not play games with us, Potter,몯 said Malfoy. 

몮I몭m not playing games,몯 said Harry, half his mind on 
the conversation, half on his wandering foot. And 
then he found someone몭s toes and pressed down upon 
them. A sharp intake of breath behind him told him 
they were Hermione몭s. 

| 1002Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮What?몯 she whispered. 

몮Dumbledore never told you that the reason you bear 
that scar was hidden in the bowels of the Department 
of Mysteries?몯 said Malfoy sneeringly. 

몮I 멪 what?몯 said Harry, and for a moment he quite 
forgot his plan. 몮What about my scar?몯 

몮 What?몯 whispered Hermione more urgently behind 
him. 

몮Can this be?몯 said Malfoy, sounding maliciously 
delighted; some of the Death Eaters were laughing 
again, and under cover of their laughter, Harry hissed 
to Hermione, moving his lips as little as possible, 
몮Smash shelves 멪 몯 

몮Dumbledore never told you?몯 Malfoy repeated. 몮Well, 
this explains why you didn몭t come earlier, Potter, the 
Dark Lord wondered why 멪 몯 

몮 멪 when I say go 멪 몯 

몮 멪 you didn몭t come running when he showed you the 
place where it was hidden in your dreams. He 
thought natural curiosity would make you want to 
hear the exact wording...몯 

몮Did he?몯 said Harry. Behind him he felt rather than 
heard Hermione passing his message to the others 
and he sought to keep talking, to distract the Death 
Eaters. 몮So he wanted me to come and get it, did he? 
Why?몯 

몮Why?몯 Malfoy sounded incredulously delighted. 
몮Because the only people who are permitted to 
retrieve a prophecy from the Department of Mysteries, 
Potter, are those about whom it was made, as the 

| 1003Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Dark Lord discovered when he attempted to use 
others to steal it for him.몯 

몮And why did he want to steal a prophecy about me?몯 

몮About both of you, Potter, about both of you ... 
Haven몭t you ever wondered why the Dark Lord tried to 
kill you as a baby?몯 

Harry stared into the slitted eyeholes through which 
Malfoy몭s gray eyes were gleaming. Was this prophecy 
the reason Harry몭s parents had died, the reason he 
carried his lightning-bolt scar? Was the answer to all 
of this clutched in his hand? 

몮Someone made a prophecy about Voldemort and 
me?몯 he said quietly, gazing at Lucius Malfoy, his 
fingers tightening over the warm glass sphere in his 
hand. It was hardly larger than a Snitch and still 
gritty with dust. 몮And he몭s made me come and get it 
for him? Why couldn몭t he come and get it himself?몯 

몮Get it himself?몯 shrieked Bellatrix on a cackle of mad 
laughter. 몮The Dark Lord, walk into the Ministry of 
Magic, when they are so sweetly ignoring his return? 
The Dark Lord, reveal himself to the Aurors, when at 
the moment they are wasting their time on my dear 
cousin?몯 

몮So he몭s got you doing his dirty work for him, has 
he?몯 said Harry. 몮Like he tried to get Sturgis to steal it 
멪 and Bode?몯 

몮Very good, Potter, very good ...몯 said Malfoy slowly. 
몮But the Dark Lord knows you are not unintell 멪 몯 

몮NOW!몯 yelled Harry. 



| 1004Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Five different voices behind him bellowed 몮REDUCTOl몯 
Five curses flew in five different directions and the 
shelves opposite them exploded as they hit. The 
towering structure swayed as a hundred glass 
spheres burst apart, pearly-white figures unfurled 
into the air and floated there, their voices echoing 
from who knew what long-dead past amid the torrent 
of crashing glass and splintered wood now raining 
down upon the floor 멪 

몮RUN!몯 Harry yelled, and as the shelves swayed 
precariously and more glass spheres began to pour 
from above, he seized a handful of Hermione몭s robes 
and dragged her forward, one arm over his head as 
chunks of shelf and shards of glass thundered down 
upon them. A Death Eater lunged forward through 
the cloud of dust and Harry elbowed him hard in the 
masked face. They were all yelling, there were cries of 
pain, thunderous crashes as the shelves collapsed 
upon themselves, weirdly echoing fragments of the 
Seers unleashed from their spheres 멪 

Harry found the way ahead clear and saw Ron, 

Ginny, and Luna sprint past him, their arms over 
their heads. Something heavy struck him on the side 
of the face but he merely ducked his head and 
sprinted onward; a hand caught him by the shoulder; 
he heard Hermione shout 몮Stupefy\몯 and the hand 
released him at once. 

They were at the end of row ninety-seven; Harry 
turned right and began to sprint in earnest. He could 
hear footsteps right behind him and Hermione몭s voice 
urging Neville on. The door through which they had 
come was ajar straight ahead, Harry could see the 
glittering light of the bell jar, he pelted through it, the 
prophecy still clutched tight and safe in his hand, 
waited for the others to hurtle over the threshold 
before slamming the door behind them 멪 

| 1005Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮 Colloportus\몯 gasped Hermione and the door sealed 
itself with an odd squelching noise. 

몮Where 멪 where are the others?몯 gasped Harry. 

He had thought that Ron, Luna, and Ginny had been 
ahead of them, that they would be waiting in this 
room, but there was nobody there. 

몮They must have gone the wrong way!몯 whispered 
Hermione, terror in her face. 

몮Listen!몯 whispered Neville. 

Footsteps and shouts echoed from behind the door 
they had just sealed. Harry put his ear close to the 
door to listen and heard Lucius Malfoy roar: 몮Leave 
Nott, leave him, I say, the Dark Lord will not care for 
Nott몭s injuries as much as losing that prophecy 멪 
Jugson, come back here, we need to organize! Well 
split into pairs and search, and don몭t forget, be gentle 
with Potter until we몭ve got the prophecy, you can kill 
the others if necessary 멪 Bellatrix, Rodolphus, you 
take the left, Crabbe, Rabastan, go right 멪 Jugson, 
Dolohov, the door straight ahead 멪 Macnair and 
Avery, through here 멪 Rookwood, over there 멪 
Mulciber, come with me!몯 

몮What do we do?몯 Hermione asked Harry, trembling 
from head to foot. 

몮Well, we don몭t stand here waiting for them to find us, 
for a start,몯 said Harry. 몮Let몭s get away from this 
door...몯 

They ran, quietly as they could, past the shimmering 
bell jar where the tiny egg was hatching and 
unhatching, toward the exit into the circular hallway 
at the far end of the room. They were almost there 

| 1006Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




when Harry heard something large and heavy collide 
with the door Hermione had charmed shut. 

몮Stand aside!몯 said a rough voice. 몮Alohomora\몯 

As the door flew open, Harry, Hermione, and Neville 
dived under desks. They could see the bottom of the 
two Death Eaters몭 robes drawing nearer, their feet 
moving rapidly. 

몮They might몭ve run straight through to the hall,몯 said 
the rough voice. 

몮Check under the desks,몯 said another. 

Harry saw the knees of the Death Eaters bend. Poking 
his wand out from under the desk he shouted, 
몮STUPEFY]몯 

A jet of red light hit the nearest Death Eater; he fell 
backward into a grandfather clock and knocked it 
over. The second Death Eater, however, had leapt 
aside to avoid Harry몭s spell and now pointed his own 
wand at Hermione, who had crawled out from under 
the desk to get a better aim. 

몮Avada 멪 몯 

Harry launched himself across the floor and grabbed 
the Death Eater around the knees, causing him to 
topple and his aim to go awry. Neville overturned his 
desk in his anxiety to help; pointing his wand wildly 
at the struggling pair he cried, 몮EXPELLIARMUS\몯 

Both Harry몭s and the Death Eater몭s wands flew out of 
their hands and soared back toward the entrance to 
the Hall of Prophecy; both scrambled to their feet and 
charged after them, the Death Eater in front and 



| 1007Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry hot on his heels, Neville bringing up the rear, 
plainly horrors truck at what he had done. 



몮Get out of the way, Harry!몯 yelled Neville, clearly 
determined to repair the damage. 

Harry flung himself sideways as Neville took aim 
again and shouted, 몮 STUPEFY !몯 

The jet of red light flew right over the Death Eater몭s 
shoulder and hit a glass-fronted cabinet on the wall 
full of variously shaped hourglasses. The cabinet fell 
to the floor and burst apart, glass flying everywhere, 
then sprang back up onto the wall, fully mended, 
then fell down again, and shattered 멪 

The Death Eater had snatched up his wand, which 
lay on the floor beside the glittering bell jar. Harry 
ducked down behind another desk as the man turned 
멪 his mask had slipped so that he could not see, he 
ripped it off with his free hand and shouted, 몮STUP 멪 



몮STUPEFY]몯 screamed Hermione, who had just caught 
up with them. The jet of red light hit the Death Eater 
in the middle of his chest; he froze, his arm still 
raised, his wand fell to the floor with a clatter and he 
collapsed backward toward the bell jar. Harry 
expected to hear a clunk, for the man to hit solid glass 
and slide off the jar onto the floor, but instead, his 
head sank through the surface of the bell jar as 
though it was nothing but a soap bubble and he came 
to rest, sprawled on his back on the table, with his 
head lying inside the jar full of glittering wind. 

몮Accio Wand\몯 cried Hermione. Harry몭s wand flew from 
a dark corner into her hand and she threw it to him. 

몮Thanks,몯 he said, 몮right, let몭s get out of 멪 몯 

| 1008Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Look out!몯 said Neville, horrified, staring at the Death 
Eater몭s head in the bell jar. 

All three of them raised their wands again, but none 
of them struck. They were all gazing, openmouthed, 
appalled, at what was happening to the man몭s head. 

It was shrinking very fast, growing balder and balder, 
the black hair and stubble retracting into his skull, 
his cheeks smooth, his skull round and covered with 
a peachlike fuzz... 

A baby몭s head now sat grotesquely on top of the thick, 
muscled neck of the Death Eater as he struggled to 
get up again. But even as they watched, their mouths 
open, the head began to swell to its previous 
proportions again, thick black hair was sprouting 
from the pate and chin... 

몮It몭s time,몯 said Hermione in an awestruck voice. 

몮 Time ...몯 

The Death Eater shook his ugly head again, trying to 
clear it, but before he could pull himself together 
again, it began to shrink back to babyhood once 
more... 

There was a shout from a room nearby, then a crash 
and a scream. 

몮RON?몯 Harry yelled, turning quickly from the 
monstrous transformation taking place before them. 
몮GINNY? LUNA?몯 

몮Harry!몯 Hermione screamed. 

The Death Eater had pulled his head out of the bell 
jar. His appearance was utterly bizarre, his tiny 
baby몭s head bawling loudly while his thick arms 

| 1009Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




flailed dangerously in all directions, narrowly missing 
Harry, who ducked. Harry raised his wand but to his 
amazement Hermione seized his arm. 

몮You can몭t hurt a baby!몯 

There was no time to argue the point. Harry could 
hear more footsteps growing louder from the Hall of 
Prophecy they had just left and knew, too late, that 
he ought not to have shouted and given away their 
position. 

몮Come on!몯 he said again, and leaving the ugly baby- 
headed Death Eater staggering behind them, they 
took off for the door that stood ajar at the other end of 
the room, leading back into the black hallway. 

They had run halfway toward it when Harry saw 
through the open door two more Death Eaters 
running across the black room toward them. Veering 
left he burst instead into a small, dark, cluttered 
office and slammed the door behind them. 

몮Collo 멪 몯 began Hermione, but before she could 
complete the spell the door had burst open again and 
the two Death Eaters had come hurtling inside. With 
a cry of triumph, both yelled, 몮 IMPEDIMENT A\몯 

Harry, Hermione, and Neville were all knocked 
backward off their feet. Neville was thrown over the 
desk and disappeared from view, Hermione smashed 
into a bookcase and was promptly deluged in a 
cascade of heavy books; the back of Harry몭s head 
slammed into the stone wall behind him, tiny lights 
burst in front of his eyes, and for a moment he was 
too dizzy and bewildered to react. 

몮WEVE GOT HIM!몯 yelled the Death Eater nearest 
Harry, 몮IN AN OFFICE OFF 멪 몯 

| lOlOHarry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮 Silenciol 몯 cried Hermione, and the man몭s voice was 
extinguished. He continued to mouth through the 
hole in his mask, but no sound came out; he was 
thrust aside by his fellow. 

몮Petrificus Totalusl몯 shouted Harry, as the second 
Death Eater raised his wand. His arms and legs 
snapped together and he fell forward, facedown onto 
the rug at Harry몭s feet, stiff as a board and unable to 
move at all. 

몮Well done, Ha 멪 몯 

But the Death Eater Hermione had just struck dumb 
made a sudden slashing movement with his wand 
from which flew a streak of what looked like purple 
flame. It passed right across Hermione몭s chest; she 
gave a tiny 몮oh!몯 as though of surprise and then 
crumpled onto the floor where she lay motionless. 

몮HERMIONE!몯 

Harry fell to his knees beside her as Neville crawled 
rapidly toward her from under the desk, his wand 
held up in front of him. The Death Eater kicked out 
hard at Neville몭s head as he emerged 멪 his foot broke 
Neville몭s wand in two and connected with his face 멪 
Neville gave a howl of pain and recoiled, clutching his 
mouth and nose. Harry twisted around, his own wand 
held high, and saw that the Death Eater had ripped 
off his mask and was pointing his wand directly at 
Harry, who recognized the long, pale, twisted face 
from the Daily Prophet: Antonin Dolohov, the wizard 
who had murdered the Prewetts. 

Dolohov grinned. With his free hand, he pointed from 
the prophecy still clutched in Harry몭s hand, to 
himself, then at Hermione. Though he could no longer 



| lOUHarry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




speak his meaning could not have been clearer: Give 
me the prophecy, or you get the same as her... 



몮Like you won몭t kill us all the moment I hand it over 
anyway!몯 said Harry. 

A whine of panic inside his head was preventing him 
thinking properly. He had one hand on Hermione몭s 
shoulder, which was still warm, yet did not dare look 
at her properly. Don몭t let her be dead, don몭t let her be 
dead, it몭s my fault if she몭s dead... 

몮Whaddever you do, Harry,몯 said Neville fiercely from 
under the desk, lowering his hands to show a clearly 
broken nose and blood pouring down his mouth and 
chin, 몮don몭d gib it to him!몯 

Then there was a crash outside the door, and Dolohov 
looked over his shoulder 멪 the baby-headed Death 
Eater had appeared in the doorway, his head bawling, 
his great fists still flailing uncontrollably at everything 
around him. 

Harry seized his chance: 몮PETRIFICUS TOT ALU S\몯 

The spell hit Dolohov before he could block it, and he 
toppled forward across his comrade, both of them 
rigid as boards and unable to move an inch. 

몮Hermione,몯 Harry said at once, shaking her as the 
baby-headed Death Eater blundered out of sight 
again. 몮Hermione, wake up...몯 

몮Whaddid he do to her?몯 said Neville, crawling out 
from under the desk again to kneel at her other side, 
blood streaming from his rapidly swelling nose. 몮I 
dunno...몯 

Neville groped for Hermione몭s wrist. 

| 1012Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Dat몭s a pulse, Harry, I몭b sure id is...몯 



Such a powerful wave of relief swept through Harry 
that for a moment he felt light-headed. 

몮She몭s alive?몯 

몮Yeah, I dink so...몯 

There was a pause in which Harry listened hard for 
the sounds of more footsteps, but all he could hear 
were the whimpers and blunderings of the baby 
Death Eater in the next room. 

몮Neville, we몭re not far from the exit,몯 Harry whispered. 
몮We몭re right next to that circular room... If we can just 
get you across it and find the right door before any 
more Death Eaters come, I몭ll bet you can get 
Hermione up the corridor and into the lift... Then you 
could find someone... Raise the alarm ...몯 

몮And whad are you going do do?몯 said Neville, 
mopping his bleeding nose with his sleeve and 
frowning at Harry. 

몮I몭ve got to find the others,몯 said Harry. 

몮Well, I몭b going do find dem wid you,몯 said Neville 
firmly. 

몮But Hermione 멪 몯 

몮We몭ll dake her wid us,몯 said Neville firmly. 몮I몭ll carry 
her 멪 you몭re bedder at fighding dem dan I ab 멪 몯 

He stood up and seized one of Hermione몭s arms, 
glared at Harry, who hesitated, then grabbed the 
other and helped hoist Hermione몭s limp form over 
Neville몭s shoulders. 

| 1013Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Wait,몯 said Harry, snatching up Hermione몭s wand 
from the floor and shoving it into Nevilles hand, 

몮you몭d better take this...몯 

Neville kicked aside the broken fragments of his own 
wand as they walked slowly toward the door. 

몮My gran몭s going do kill be,몯 said Neville thickly, blood 
spattering from his nose as he spoke, 몮dat was by 
dad몭s old wand...몯 

Harry stuck his head out of the door and looked 
around cautiously. The baby-headed Death Eater was 
screaming and banging into things, toppling 
grandfather clocks and overturning desks, bawling 
and confused, while the glass cabinet that Harry now 
suspected had contained Time-Turners continued to 
fall, shatter, and repair itself on the wall behind them. 

몮He몭s never going to notice us,몯 he whispered. 몮C몭mon 
... keep close behind me...몯 

They crept out of the office and back toward the door 
into the black hallway, which now seemed completely 
deserted. They walked a few steps forward, Neville 
tottering slightly due to Hermione몭s weight. The door 
of the Time Room swung shut behind them, and the 
walls began to rotate once more. The recent blow on 
the back of Harry몭s head seemed to have unsteadied 
him; he narrowed his eyes, swaying slightly, until the 
walls stopped moving again. With a sinking heart 
Harry saw that Hermione몭s fiery crosses had faded 
from the doors. 

몮So which way d몭you reck 멪 ?몯 

But before they could make a decision as to which 
way to try, a door to their right sprang open and three 
people fell out of it. 

| 1014Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Ron!몯 croaked Harry, dashing toward them. 몮Ginny 
멪 are you all 멪 ?몯 

몮Harry,몯 said Ron, giggling weakly, lurching forward, 
seizing the front of Harry몭s robes and gazing at him 
with unfocused eyes. 몮There you are... Ha ha ha ... 
You look funny, Harry... You몭re all messed up... 

Ron몭s face was very white and something dark was 
trickling from the corner of his mouth. Next moment 
his knees had given way, but he still clutched the 
front of Harry몭s robes, so that Harry was pulled into a 
kind of bow. 

몮Ginny?몯 Harry said fearfully. 몮What happened?몯 

But Ginny shook her head and slid down the wall into 
a sitting position, panting and holding her ankle. 

몮I think her ankle몭s broken, I heard something crack,몯 
whispered Luna, who was bending over her and who 
alone seemed to be unhurt. 몮Four of them chased us 
into a dark room full of planets, it was a very odd 
place, some of the time we were just floating in the 
dark 멪 몯 

몮Harry, we saw Uranus up close!몯 said Ron, still 
giggling feebly. 몮Get it, Harry? We saw Uranus 멪 ha 
ha ha 멪 몯 

A bubble of blood grew at the corner of Ron몭s mouth 
and burst. 

몮Anyway, one of them grabbed Ginny몭s foot, I used the 
Reductor Curse and blew up Pluto in his face, but ...몯 

Luna gestured hopelessly at Ginny, who was 
breathing in a very shallow way, her eyes still closed. 



| 1015Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮And what about Ron?몯 said Harry fearfully, as Ron 
continued to giggle, still hanging off the front of 
Harry몭s robes. 

몮I don몭t know what they hit him with,몯 said Luna 
sadly, 몮but he몭s gone a bit funny, I could hardly get 
him along at all...몯 

몮Harry,몯 said Ron, pulling Harry몭s ear down to his 
mouth and still giggling weakly, 몮you know who this 
girl is, Harry? She몭s Loony ... Loony Lovegood ... ha 
ha ha...몯 

몮We몭ve got to get out of here,몯 said Harry firmly. 

몮Luna, can you help Ginny?몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Luna, sticking her wand behind her ear for 
safekeeping, putting an arm around Ginny몭s waist 
and pulling her up. 

몮It몭s only my ankle, I can do it myself!몯 said Ginny 
impatiently, but next moment she had collapsed 
sideways and grabbed Luna for support. Harry pulled 
Ron몭s arm over his shoulder just as, so many months 
ago, he had pulled Dudley몭s. He looked around: They 
had a one-in-twelve chance of getting the exit right 
the first time 멪 

He heaved Ron toward a door; they were within a few 
feet of it when another door across the hall burst 
open and three Death Eaters sped into the hall, led by 
Bellatrix Lestrange. 

몮 There they are!몯 she shrieked. 

Stunning Spells shot across the room: Harry smashed 
his way through the door ahead, flung Ron 
unceremoniously from him, and ducked back to help 
Neville in with Hermione. They were all over the 

| 1016Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




threshold just in time to slam the door against 
Bellatrix. 



몮 Colloportus\몯 shouted Harry, and he heard three 
bodies slam into the door on the other side. 

몮It doesn몭t matter!몯 said a man몭s voice. 몮There are 
other ways in 멪 WEVE GOT THEM, THEY몭RE HERE!몯 

Harry spun around. They were back in the Brain 
Room and, sure enough, there were doors all around 
the walls. He could hear footsteps in the hall behind 
them as more Death Eaters came running to join the 
first. 

몮Luna 멪 Neville 멪 help me!몯 

The three of them tore around the room, sealing the 
doors as they went: Harry crashed into a table and 
rolled over the top of it in his haste to reach the next 
door. 

몮 Colloportusl몯 

There were footsteps running along behind the doors; 

every now and then another heavy body would launch 

itself against one, so it creaked and shuddered. Luna 

and Neville were bewitching the doors along the 

opposite wall 멪 then, as Harry reached the very top of 

the room, he heard Luna cry, 몮Collo 멪 aaaaaaaaargh 
?? 



He turned in time to see her flying through the air. 

Five Death Eaters were surging into the room through 
the door she had not reached in time; Luna hit a 
desk, slid over its surface and onto the floor on the 
other side where she lay sprawled, as still as 
Hermione. 

| 1017Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Get Potter!몯 shrieked Bellatrix, and she ran at him. 
He dodged her and sprinted back up the room; he 
was safe as long as they thought they might hit the 
prophecy 멪 

몮Hey!몯 said Ron, who had staggered to his feet and 
was now tottering drunkenly toward Harry, giggling. 
몮Hey, Harry, there are brains in here, ha ha ha, isn몭t 
that weird, Harry?몯 

몮Ron, get out of the way, get down 멪 몯 

But Ron had already pointed his wand at the tank. 

몮Honest, Harry, they몭re brains 멪 look 멪 Accio Brain\몯 

The scene seemed momentarily frozen. Harry, Ginny, 
and Neville and each of the Death Eaters turned in 
spite of themselves to watch the top of the tank as a 
brain burst from the green liquid like a leaping fish. 
For a moment it seemed suspended in midair, then it 
soared toward Ron, spinning as it came, and what 
looked like ribbons of moving images flew from it, 
unraveling like rolls of film 멪 

몮Ha ha ha, Harry, look at it 멪 몯 said Ron, watching it 
disgorge its gaudy innards. 몮Harry, come and touch 
it, bet it몭s weird 멪 몯 

몮RON, NO!몯 

Harry did not know what would happen if Ron 
touched the tentacles of thought now flying behind 
the brain, but he was sure it would not be anything 
good. He darted forward but Ron had already caught 
the brain in his outstretched hands. 



| 1018Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The moment they made contact with his skin, the 
tentacles began wrapping themselves around Ron몭s 
arms like ropes. 

몮Harry, look what몭s happen 멪 no 멪 no, I don몭t like it 
멪 no, stop 멪 stop 멪 몯 

But the thin ribbons were spinning around Ron몭s 
chest now. He tugged and tore at them as the brain 
was pulled tight against him like an octopus몭s body. 

몮Diffindol몯 yelled Harry, trying to sever the feelers 
wrapping themselves tightly around Ron before his 
eyes, but they would not break. Ron fell over, still 
thrashing against his bonds. 

몮Harry, it몭ll suffocate him!몯 screamed Ginny, 
immobilized by her broken ankle on the floor 멪 then 
a jet of red light flew from one of the Death Eater몭s 
wands and hit her squarely in the face. She keeled 
over sideways and lay there unconscious. 

몮 STUBEFYl몯 shouted Neville, wheeling around and 
waving Hermione몭s wand at the oncoming Death 
Eaters. 몮STUBEFY, STUBEFYl몯 

But nothing happened 멪 one of the Death Eaters 
shot their own Stunning Spell at Neville; it missed 
him by inches. Harry and Neville were now the only 
two left fighting the five Death Eaters, two of whom 
sent streams of silver light like arrows past them that 
left craters in the wall behind them. Harry ran for it 
as Bellatrix Lestrange sprinted right at him. Holding 
the prophecy high above his head he sprinted back 
up the room; all he could think of doing was to draw 
the Death Eaters away from the others. 

It seemed to have worked. They streaked after him, 
knocking chairs and tables flying but not daring to 

| 1019Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




bewitch him in case they hurt the prophecy, and he 
dashed through the only door still open, the one 
through which the Death Eaters themselves had 
come. Inwardly praying that Neville would stay with 
Ron 멪 find some way of releasing him 멪 he ran a few 
feet into the new room and felt the floor vanish 멪 

He was falling down steep stone step after steep stone 
step, bouncing on every tier until at last, with a crash 
that knocked all the breath out of his body, he landed 
flat on his back in the sunken pit where the stone 
archway stood on its dais. The whole room was 
ringing with the Death Eaters몭 laughter. He looked up 
and saw the five who had been in the Brain Room 
descending toward him, while as many more emerged 
through other doorways and began leaping from 
bench to bench toward him. Harry got to his feet 
though his legs were trembling so badly they barely 
supported him. The prophecy was still miraculously 
unbroken in his left hand, his wand clutched tightly 
in his right. He backed away, looking around, trying 
to keep all the Death Eaters within his sights. The 
back of his legs hit something solid; he had reached 
the dais where the archway stood. He climbed 
backward onto it. 

The Death Eaters all halted, gazing at him. Some were 
panting as hard as he was. One was bleeding badly; 
Dolohov, freed of the full Body-Bind, was leering, his 
wand pointing straight at Harry몭s face. 

몮Potter, your race is run,몯 drawled Lucius Malfoy, 
pulling off his mask. 몮Now hand me the prophecy like 
a good boy...몯 

몮Let 멪 let the others go, and I몭ll give it to you!몯 said 
Harry desperately. 

A few of the Death Eaters laughed. 

| 1020Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮You are not in a position to bargain, Potter,몯 said 
Lucius Malfoy, his pale face flushed with pleasure. 

몮You see, there are ten of us and only one of you ... or 
hasn몭t Dumbledore ever taught you how to count?몯 

몮He몭s dot alone!몯 shouted a voice from above them. 

몮He몭s still god be!몯 

Harry몭s heart sank. Neville was scrambling down the 
stone benches toward them, Hermione몭s wand held 
fast in his trembling hand. 

몮Neville 멪 no 멪 go back to Ron 멪 몯 

몮STUBEFYl몯 Neville shouted again, pointing his wand 
at each Death Eater in turn, 몮STUBEFYl. STUBE 멪 몯 

One of the largest Death Eaters seized Neville from 
behind, pinioning his arms to his sides. He struggled 
and kicked; several of the Death Eaters laughed. 

몮It몭s Longbottom, isn몭t it?몯 sneered Lucius Malfoy. 

몮Well, your grandmother is used to losing family 
members to our cause... Your death will not come as 
a great shock...몯 

몮Longbottom?몯 repeated Bellatrix, and a truly evil 
smile lit her gaunt face. 몮Why, I have had the 
pleasure of meeting your parents, boy...몯 

몮I DOE YOU HAB!몯 roared Neville, and he fought so 
hard against his captor몭s encircling grip that the 
Death Eater shouted, 몮Someone Stun him!몯 

몮No, no, no,몯 said Bellatrix. She looked transported, 
alive with excitement as she glanced at Harry, then 
back at Neville. 몮No, let몭s see how long Longbottom 
lasts before he cracks like his parents... Unless Potter 
wants to give us the prophecy 멪 몯 

| 1021Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮DON몭D GIB ID DO DEM!몯 roared Neville, who seemed 
beside himself, kicking and writhing as Bellatrix drew 
nearer to him and his captor, her wand raised. 

몮DON몭D GIB ID DO DEM, HARRY!몯 

Bellatrix raised her wand. 몮Cruciol몯 

Neville screamed, his legs drawn up to his chest so 
that the Death Eater holding him was momentarily 
holding him off the ground. The Death Eater dropped 
him and he fell to the floor, twitching and screaming 
in agony. 

몮That was just a taster!몯 said Bellatrix, raising her 
wand so that Neville몭s screams stopped and he lay 
sobbing at her feet. She turned and gazed up at 
Harry. 몮Now, Potter, either give us the prophecy, or 
watch your little friend die the hard way!몯 

Harry did not have to think; there was no choice. The 
prophecy was hot with the heat from his clutching 
hand as he held it out. Malfoy jumped forward to take 
it. 

Then, high above them, two more doors burst open 
and five more people sprinted into the room: Sirius, 
Lupin, Moody, Tonks, and Kingsley. 

Malfoy turned and raised his wand, but Tonks had 
already sent a Stunning Spell right at him. Harry did 
not wait to see whether it had made contact, but 
dived off the dais out of the way. The Death Eaters 
were completely distracted by the appearance of the 
members of the Order, who were now raining spells 
down upon them as they jumped from step to step 
toward the sunken floor: Through the darting bodies, 
the flashes of light, Harry could see Neville crawling 
along. He dodged another jet of red light and flung 
himself flat on the ground to reach Neville. 

| 1022Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Are you okay?몯 he yelled, as another spell soared 
inches over their heads. 



몮Yes,몯 said Neville, trying to pull himself up. 

몮And Ron?몯 

몮I dink he몭s all right 멪 he was still fighding the brain 
when I left 멪 몯 

The stone floor between them exploded as a spell hit 
it, leaving a crater right where Neville몭s hand had 
been seconds before. Both scrambled away from the 
spot, then a thick arm came out of nowhere, seized 
Harry around the neck and pulled him upright, so 
that his toes were barely touching the floor. 

몮Give it to me,몯 growled a voice in his ear, 몮give me the 
prophecy 멪 몯 

The man was pressing so tightly on Harry몭s windpipe 
that he could not breathe 멪 through watering eyes he 
saw Sirius dueling with a Death Eater some ten feet 
away. Kingsley was fighting two at once; Tonks, still 
halfway up the tiered seats, was firing spells down at 
Bellatrix 멪 nobody seemed to realize that Harry was 
dying... He turned his wand backward toward the 
man몭s side, but had no breath to utter an incantation, 
and the man몭s free hand was groping toward the hand 
in which Harry was grasping the prophecy 멪 

몮AARGH!몯 

Neville had come lunging out of nowhere: Unable to 
articulate a spell, he had jabbed Hermione몭s wand 
hard into the eyehole of the Death Eater몭s mask. The 
man relinquished Harry at once with a howl of pain 
and Harry whirled around to face him and gasped, 
몮STUPEFY]몯 

| 1023Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The Death Eater keeled over backward and his mask 
slipped off. It was Macnair, Buckbeak몭s would-be 
killer, one of his eyes now swollen and bloodshot. 

몮Thanks!몯 Harry said to Neville, pulling him aside as 
Sirius and his Death Eater lurched past, dueling so 
fiercely that their wands were blurs. Then Harry몭s foot 
made contact with something round and hard and he 
slipped 멪 for a moment he thought he had dropped 
the prophecy, then saw Moody몭s magic eye spinning 
away across the floor. 

Its owner was lying on his side, bleeding from the 
head, and his attacker was now bearing down upon 
Harry and Neville: Dolohov, his long pale face twisted 
with glee. 

몮Tarantallegrcd몯 he shouted, his wand pointing at 
Neville, whose legs went immediately into a kind of 
frenzied tap dance, unbalancing him and causing him 
to fall to the floor again. 몮Now, Potter 멪 몯 

He made the same slashing movement with his wand 
that he had used on Hermione just as Harry yelled, 
몮Protego\몯 

Harry felt something streak across his face like a 
blunt knife but the force of it knocked him sideways, 
and he fell over Neville몭s jerking legs, but the Shield 
Charm had stopped the worst of the spell. 

Dolohov raised his wand again. 몮Accio Proph 멪 몯 

Sirius hurtled out of nowhere, rammed Dolohov with 
his shoulder, and sent him flying out of the way. The 
prophecy had again flown to the tips of Harry몭s fingers 
but he had managed to cling to it. Now Sirius and 
Dolohov were dueling, their wands flashing like 
swords, sparks flying from their wand tips 멪 

| 1024Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Dolohov drew back his wand to make the same 
slashing movement he had used on Harry and 
Hermione. Springing up, Harry yelled, 몮Petrificus 
Totalusl몯 Once again, Dolohov몭s arms and legs 
snapped together and he keeled over backward, 
landing with a crash on his back. 

몮Nice one!몯 shouted Sirius, forcing Harry몭s head down 
as a pair of Stunning Spells flew toward them. 몮Now I 
want you to get out of 멪 몯 

They both ducked again. A jet of green light had 
narrowly missed Sirius; across the room Harry saw 
Tonks fall from halfway up the stone steps, her limp 
form toppling from stone seat to stone seat, and 
Bellatrix, triumphant, running back toward the fray. 

몮Harry, take the prophecy, grab Neville, and run!몯 
Sirius yelled, dashing to meet Bellatrix. Harry did not 
see what happened next: Kingsley swayed across his 
field of vision, battling with the pockmarked 
Rookwood, now mask-less; another jet of green light 
flew over Harry몭s head as he launched himself toward 
Neville 멪 

몮Can you stand?몯 he bellowed in Neville몭s ear, as 
Neville몭s legs jerked and twitched uncontrollably. 몮Put 
your arm round my neck 멪 몯 

Neville did so 멪 Harry heaved 멪 Neville몭s legs were 
still flying in every direction, they would not support 
him and then, out of nowhere, a man lunged at them. 
Both fell backward, Neville몭s legs waving wildly like an 
overturned beetle몭s, Harry with his left arm held up in 
the air to try and save the small glass ball from being 
smashed. 



| 1025Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮The prophecy, give me the prophecy, Potter!몯 snarled 
Lucius Malfoy몭s voice in his ear, and Harry felt the tip 
of Malfoy몭s wand pressing hard between his ribs. 

몮No 멪 get 멪 off 멪 me ... Neville 멪 catch it!몯 

Harry flung the prophecy across the floor, Neville 
spun himself around on his back and scooped the 
ball to his chest. Malfoy pointed the wand instead at 
Neville, but Harry jabbed his own wand back over his 
shoulder and yelled, 몮Impedimental몯 

Malfoy was blasted off his back. As Harry scrambled 
up again he looked around and saw Malfoy smash 
into the dais on which Sirius and Bellatrix were now 
dueling. Malfoy aimed his wand at Harry and Neville 
again, but before he could draw breath to strike, 
Lupin had jumped between them. 

몮Harry, round up the others and GO!몯 

Harry seized Neville by the shoulder of his robes and 
lifted him bodily onto the first tier of stone steps. 
Neville몭s legs twitched and jerked and would not 
support his weight. Harry heaved again with all the 
strength he possessed and they climbed another step 



A spell hit the stone bench at Harry몭s heel. It 
crumbled away and he fell back to the step below: 
Neville sank to the ground, his legs still jerking and 
thrashing, and thrust the prophecy into his pocket. 

몮Come on!몯 said Harry desperately, hauling at 
Neville몭s robes. 몮Just try and push with your legs 멪 몯 

He gave another stupendous heave and Neville몭s robes 
tore all along the left seam 멪 the small spun-glass 
ball dropped from his pocket and before either of 

| 1026Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




them could catch it, one of Neville몭s floundering feet 
kicked it. It flew some ten feet to their right and 
smashed on the step beneath them. As both of them 
stared at the place where it had broken, appalled at 
what had happened, a pearly-white figure with hugely 
magnified eyes rose into the air, unnoticed by any but 
them. Harry could see its mouth moving, but in all 
the crashes and screams and yells surrounding them, 
not one word of the prophecy could he hear. The 
figure stopped speaking and dissolved into 
nothingness. 

몮Harry, I몭b sorry!몯 cried Neville, his face anguished as 
his legs continued to flounder, 몮I몭b so sorry, Harry, I 
didn몭d bean do 멪 뫃몯 

몮It doesn몭t matter!몯 Harry shouted. 몮Just try and 
stand, let몭s get out of 멪 몯 

몮 Dubbledorel몯 said Neville, his sweaty face suddenly 
transported, staring over Harry몭s shoulder. 

몮What?몯 

몮DUBBLEDORE!몯 

Harry turned to look where Neville was staring. 

Directly above them, framed in the doorway from the 
Brain Room, stood Albus Dumbledore, his wand aloft, 
his face white and furious. Harry felt a kind of electric 
charge surge through every particle of his body 멪 
they were saved. 

Dumbledore sped down the steps past Neville and 
Harry, who had no more thought of leaving. 
Dumbledore was already at the foot of the steps when 
the Death Eaters nearest realized he was there. There 
were yells; one of the Death Eaters ran for it, 
scrabbling like a monkey up the stone steps opposite. 
| 1027Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore몭s spell pulled him back as easily and 
effortlessly as though he had hooked him with an 
invisible line 멪 



Only one couple were still battling, apparently 
unaware of the new arrival. Harry saw Sirius duck 
Bellatrix몭s jet of red light: He was laughing at her. 
몮Come on, you can do better than that!몯 he yelled, his 
voice echoing around the cavernous room. 

The second jet of light hit him squarely on the chest. 

The laughter had not quite died from his face, but his 
eyes widened in shock. 

Harry released Neville, though he was unaware of 
doing so. He was jumping down the steps again, 
pulling out his wand, as Dumbledore turned to the 
dais too. 

It seemed to take Sirius an age to fall. His body 
curved in a graceful arc as he sank backward through 
the ragged veil hanging from the arch... 

And Harry saw the look of mingled fear and surprise 
on his godfather몭s wasted, once-handsome face as he 
fell through the ancient doorway and disappeared 
behind the veil, which fluttered for a moment as 
though in a high wind and then fell back into place. 

Harry heard Bellatrix Lestrange몭s triumphant scream, 
but knew it meant nothing 멪 Sirius had only just 
fallen through the archway, he would reappear from 
the other side any second... 

But Sirius did not reappear. 

몮SIRIUS!몯 Harry yelled, 몮SIRIUS!몯 

| 1028Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He had reached the floor, his breath coming in 
searing gasps. Sirius must be just behind the curtain, 
he, Harry, would pull him back out again... 

But as he reached the ground and sprinted toward 
the dais, Lupin grabbed Harry around the chest, 
holding him back. 

몮There몭s nothing you can do, Harry 멪 몯 

몮Get him, save him, he몭s only just gone through!몯 

몮It몭s too late, Harry 멪 몯 

몮We can still reach him 멪 몯 

Harry struggled hard and viciously, but Lupin would 
not let go... 

몮There몭s nothing you can do, Harry ... nothing... He몭s 
gone.몯 



| 1029Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






THE ONLY ONE HE EVER FEARED 

몮He hasn몭t gone!몯 Harry yelled. 

He did not believe it, he would not believe it; still he 
fought Lupin with every bit of strength he had: Lupin 
did not understand, people hid behind that curtain, 
he had heard them whispering the first time he had 
entered the room 멪 Sirius was hiding, simply lurking 
out of sight 멪 

몮SIRIUS!몯 he bellowed, 몮SIRIUS!몯 

몮He can몭t come back, Harry,몯 said Lupin, his voice 
breaking as he struggled to contain Harry. 몮He can몭t 
come back, because he몭s d 멪 몯 

몮HE 멪 IS 멪 NOT 멪 DEAD!몯 roared Harry. 몮SIRIUS!몯 

There was movement going on around them, pointless 
bustling, the flashes of more spells. To Harry it was 
meaningless noise, the deflected curses flying past 
them did not matter, nothing mattered except that 
Lupin stop pretending that Sirius, who was standing 
| 1030Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



feet from them behind that old curtain, was not going 
to emerge at any moment, shaking back his dark hair 
and eager to reenter the battle 멪 

Lupin dragged Harry away from the dais, Harry still 
staring at the archway, angry at Sirius now for 
keeping him waiting 멪 

But some part of him realized, even as he fought to 
break free from Lupin, that Sirius had never kept him 
waiting before... Sirius had risked everything, always, 
to see Harry, to help him... If Sirius was not 
reappearing out of that archway when Harry was 
yelling for him as though his life depended on it, the 
only possible explanation was that he could not come 
back. . . That he really was . . . 

Dumbledore had most of the remaining Death Eaters 
grouped in the middle of the room, seemingly 
immobilized by invisible ropes. Mad-Eye Moody had 
crawled across the room to where Tonks lay and was 
attempting to revive her. Behind the dais there were 
still flashes of light, grunts, and cries 멪 Kingsley had 
run forward to continue Sirius몭s duel with Bellatrix. 

몮Harry?몯 

Neville had slid down the stone benches one by one to 
the place where Harry stood. Harry was no longer 
struggling against Lupin, who maintained a 
precautionary grip on his arm nevertheless. 

몮Harry ... I몭b really sorry...몯 said Neville. His legs were 
still dancing uncontrollably. 몮Was dat man 멪 was 
Sirius Black a 멪 a friend of yours?몯 

Harry nodded. 



| 1031Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Here,몯 said Lupin quietly, and pointing his wand at 
Neville몭s legs he said, 몮Finite.몯 The spell was lifted. 
Neville몭s legs fell back onto the floor and remained 
still. Lupin몭s face was pale. 몮Let몭s 멪 let몭s find the 
others. Where are they all, Neville?몯 

Lupin turned away from the archway as he spoke. It 
sounded as though every word was causing him pain. 

몮Dey몭re all back dere,몯 said Neville. 몮A brain addacked 
Ron bud I dink he몭s all righd 멪 and Herbione몭s 
unconscious, bud we could feel a bulse 멪 몯 

There was a loud bang and a yell from behind the 
dais. Harry saw Kingsley, yelling in pain, hit the 
ground. Bellatrix Lestrange turned tail and ran as 
Dumbledore whipped around. He aimed a spell at her 
but she deflected it. She was halfway up the steps 
now 멪 

몮Harry 멪 no!몯 cried Lupin, but Harry had already 
ripped his arm from Lupin몭s slackened grip. 

몮SHE KILLED SIRIUS!몯 bellowed Harry. 몮SHE KILLED 
HIM 멪 I몭LL KILL HER!몯 

And he was off, scrambling up the stone benches. 
People were shouting behind him but he did not care. 
The hem of Bellatrix몭s robes whipped out of sight 
ahead and they were back in the room where the 
brains were swimming. . . 

She aimed a curse over her shoulder. The tank rose 
into the air and tipped. Harry was deluged in the foul- 
smelling potion within. The brains slipped and slid 
over him and began spinning their long, colored 
tentacles, but he shouted, 몮Wingardium Levioscd몯 and 
they flew into the air away from him. Slipping and 
sliding he ran on toward the door. He leapt over Luna, 
| 1032Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




who was groaning on the floor, past Ginny, who said, 
몮Harry 멪 what 멪 ?몯 past Ron, who giggled feebly, and 
Hermione, who was still unconscious. He wrenched 
open the door into the circular black hall and saw 
Bellatrix disappearing through a door on the other 
side of the room 멪 beyond her was the corridor 
leading back to the lifts. 

He ran, but she had slammed the door behind her 
and the walls had begun to rotate again. Once more 
he was surrounded by streaks of blue light from the 
whirling candelabra. 

몮Where몭s the exit?몯 he shouted desperately, as the 
wall rumbled to a halt again. 몮Where몭s the way out?몯 

The room seemed to have been waiting for him to ask. 
The door right behind him flew open, and the corridor 
toward the lifts stretched ahead of him, torch- lit and 
empty. He ran... 

He could hear a lift clattering ahead of him. He 
sprinted up the passageway, swung around the 
corner, and slammed his fist onto the button to call a 
second lift. It jangled and banged lower and lower; the 
grilles slid open and Harry dashed inside, now 
hammering the button marked Atrium. The doors slid 
shut and he was rising. . . 

He forced his way out of the lift before the grilles were 
fully open and looked around. Bellatrix was almost at 
the telephone lift at the other end of the hall, but she 
looked back as he sprinted toward her, and aimed 
another spell at him. He dodged behind the Fountain 
of Magical Brethren; the spell zoomed past him and 
hit the wrought gold gates at the other end of the 
Atrium so that they rang like bells. There were no 
more footsteps. She had stopped running. He 
crouched behind the statues, listening. 

| 1033Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮 Come out, come out, little HarryV몭 she called in her 
mock-baby voice, which echoed off the polished 
wooden floors. 몮What did you come after me for, then? 

I thought you were here to avenge my dear cousin!몯 

몮I am!몯 shouted Harry, and a score of ghostly Harry몭s 
seemed to chorus I am\ I am\ I am\ all around the 
room. 

몮Aaaaaah . . . did you love him, little baby Potter?몯 

Hatred rose in Harry such as he had never known 
before. He flung himself out from behind the fountain 
and bellowed 몮CrucioV몭 

Bellatrix screamed. The spell had knocked her off her 
feet, but she did not writhe and shriek with pain as 
Neville had 멪 she was already on her feet again, 
breathless, no longer laughing. Harry dodged behind 
the golden fountain again 멪 her counterspell hit the 
head of the handsome wizard, which was blown off 
and landed twenty feet away, gouging long scratches 
into the wooden floor. 

몮Never used an Unforgivable Curse before, have you, 
boy?몯 she yelled. She had abandoned her baby voice 
now. 몮You need to mean them, Potter! You need to 
really want to cause pain 멪 to enjoy it 멪 righteous 
anger won몭t hurt me for long 멪 I몭ll show you how it is 
done, shall I? I몭ll give you a lesson 멪 몯 

Harry had been edging around the fountain on the 
other side. She screamed, 몮Cruciol몯 and he was forced 
to duck down again as the centaur몭s arm, holding its 
bow, spun off and landed with a crash on the floor a 
short distance from the golden wizard몭s head. 

몮Potter, you cannot win against me!몯 she cried. He 
could hear her moving to the right, trying to get a 

| 1034Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




clear shot of him. He backed around the statue away 
from her, crouching behind the centaur몭s legs, his 
head level with the house-elf몭s. 몮I was and am the 
Dark Lord몭s most loyal servant, I learned the Dark 
Arts from him, and I know spells of such power that 
you, pathetic little boy, can never hope to compete 멪 몯 

몮Stupefy\몯 yelled Harry. He had edged right around to 
where the goblin stood beaming up at the now 
headless wizard and taken aim at her back as she 
peered around the fountain for him. She reacted so 
fast he barely had time to duck. 

몮Protegol몯 

The jet of red light, his own Stunning Spell, bounced 
back at him. Harry scrambled back behind the 
fountain, and one of the goblin몭s ears went flying 
across the room. 

몮Potter, I am going to give you one chance!몯 shouted 
Bellatrix. 몮Give me the prophecy 멪 roll it out toward 
me now 멪 and I may spare your life!몯 

몮Well, you몭re going to have to kill me, because it몭s 
gone!몯 Harry roared 멪 and as he shouted it, pain 
seared across his forehead. His scar was on fire 
again, and he felt a surge of fury that was quite 
unconnected with his own rage. 몮And he knows!몯 said 
Harry with a mad laugh to match Bellatrix 몭s own. 

몮Your dear old mate Voldemort knows it몭s gone! He몭s 
not going to be happy with you, is he?몯 

몮What? What do you mean?몯 she cried, and for the 
first time there was fear in her voice. 

몮The prophecy smashed when I was trying to get 
Neville up the steps! What do you think Voldemort몭ll 
say about that, then?몯 

| 1035Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




His scar seared and burned... The pain of it was 
making his eyes stream... 



몮LIAR!몯 she shrieked, but he could hear the terror 
behind the anger now. 몮YOU몭VE GOT IT, POTTER, 
AND YOU WILL GIVE IT TO ME 멪 Accio Prophecy ! 
ACCIO PROPHECY !몯 

Harry laughed again because he knew it would 
incense her, the pain building in his head so badly he 
thought his skull might burst. He waved his empty 
hand from behind the one-eared goblin and withdrew 
it quickly as she sent another jet of green light flying 
at him. 

몮Nothing there!몯 he shouted. 몮Nothing to summon! It 
smashed and nobody heard what it said, tell your 
boss that 멪 몯 

몮No!몯 she screamed. 몮It isn몭t true, you몭re lying 멪 
MASTER, I TRIED, I TRIED 멪 DO NOT PUNISH ME 



몮Don몭t waste your breath!몯 yelled Harry, his eyes 
screwed up against the pain in his scar, now more 
terrible than ever. 몮He can몭t hear you from here!몯 

몮Can몭t I, Potter?몯 said a high, cold voice. 

Harry opened his eyes. 

Tall, thin, and black-hooded, his terrible snakelike 
face white and gaunt, his scarlet, slit-pupiled eyes 
staring ... Lord Voldemort had appeared in the middle 
of the hall, his wand pointing at Harry who stood 
frozen, quite unable to move. 

몮So you smashed my prophecy?몯 said Voldemort 
softly, staring at Harry with those pitiless red eyes. 

| 1036Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮No, Bella, he is not lying... I see the truth looking at 
me from within his worthless mind... Months of 
preparation, months of effort . . . and my Death Eaters 
have let Harry Potter thwart me again...몯 

몮Master, I am sorry, I knew not, I was fighting the 
Animagus Black!몯 sobbed Bellatrix, flinging herself 
down at Voldemort몭s feet as he paced slowly nearer. 
몮Master, you should know 멪 몯 

몮Be quiet, Bella,몯 said Voldemort dangerously. 몮I shall 
deal with you in a moment. Do you think I have 
entered the Ministry of Magic to hear your sniveling 
apologies?몯 

몮But Master 멪 he is here 멪 he is below 멪 몯 

Voldemort paid no attention. 

몮I have nothing more to say to you, Potter,몯 he said 
quietly. 몮You have irked me too often, for too long. 
AVADA KEDAVRAl몯 

Harry had not even opened his mouth to resist. His 
mind was blank, his wand pointing uselessly at the 
floor. 

But the headless golden statue of the wizard in the 
fountain had sprung alive, leaping from its plinth, 
and landed on the floor with a crash between Harry 
and Voldemort. The spell merely glanced off its chest 
as the statue flung out its arms, protecting Harry. 

몮What 멪 ?몯 said Voldemort, staring around. And then 
he breathed, 몮Dumbledore!몯 

Harry looked behind him, his heart pounding. 
Dumbledore was standing in front of the golden gates. 



| 1037Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Voldemort raised his wand and sent another jet of 
green light at Dumbledore, who turned and was gone 
in a whirling of his cloak; next second he had 
reappeared behind Voldemort and waved his wand 
toward the remnants of the fountain; the other 
statues sprang to life too. The statue of the witch ran 
at Bellatrix, who screamed and sent spells streaming 
uselessly off its chest, before it dived at her, pinning 
her to the floor. Meanwhile, the goblin and the house- 
elf scuttled toward the fireplaces set along the wall, 
and the one-armed centaur galloped at Voldemort, 
who vanished and reappeared beside the pool. The 
headless statue thrust Harry backward, away from 
the fight, as Dumbledore advanced on Voldemort and 
the golden centaur cantered around them both. 

몮It was foolish to come here tonight, Tom,몯 said 
Dumbledore calmly. 몮The Aurors are on their way 멪 몯 

몮By which time I shall be gone, and you dead!몯 spat 
Voldemort. He sent another Killing Curse at 
Dumbledore but missed, instead hitting the security 
guards desk, which burst into flame. 

Dumbledore flicked his own wand. The force of the 
spell that emanated from it was such that Harry, 
though shielded by his stone guard, felt his hair 
stand on end as it passed, and this time Voldemort 
was forced to conjure a shining silver shield out of 
thin air to deflect it. The spell, whatever it was, 
caused no visible damage to the shield, though a 
deep, gonglike note reverberated from it, an oddly 
chilling sound... 

몮You do not seek to kill me, Dumbledore?몯 called 
Voldemort, his scarlet eyes narrowed over the top of 
the shield. 몮Above such brutality, are you?몯 



| 1038Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮We both know that there are other ways of 
destroying a man, Tom,몯 Dumbledore said calmly, 
continuing to walk toward Voldemort as though he 
had not a fear in the world, as though nothing had 
happened to interrupt his stroll up the hall. 몮Merely 
taking your life would not satisfy me, I admit 멪 몯 

몮There is nothing worse than death, Dumbledore!몯 
snarled Voldemort. 

몮You are quite wrong,몯 said Dumbledore, still closing 
in upon Voldemort and speaking as lightly as though 
they were discussing the matter over drinks. Harry 
felt scared to see him walking along, undefended, 
shieldless. He wanted to cry out a warning, but his 
headless guard kept shunting him backward toward 
the wall, blocking his every attempt to get out from 
behind it. 몮Indeed, your failure to understand that 
there are things much worse than death has always 
been your greatest weakness 멪 몯 

Another jet of green light flew from behind the silver 
shield. This time it was the one-armed centaur, 
galloping in front of Dumbledore, that took the blast 
and shattered into a hundred pieces, but before the 
fragments had even hit the floor, Dumbledore had 
drawn back his wand and waved it as though 
brandishing a whip. A long thin flame flew from the 
tip; it wrapped itself around Voldemort, shield and all. 
For a moment, it seemed Dumbledore had won, but 
then the fiery rope became a serpent, which 
relinquished its hold upon Voldemort at once and 
turned, hissing furiously, to face Dumbledore. 

Voldemort vanished. The snake reared from the floor, 
ready to strike 멪 



There was a burst of flame in midair above 
Dumbledore just as Voldemort reappeared, standing 

| 1039Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




on the plinth in the middle of the pool where so 
recently the five statues had stood. 



몮Look outi몯 Harry yelled. 

But even as he shouted, one more jet of green light 
had flown at Dumbledore from Voldemort몭s wand and 
the snake had struck 멪 

Fawkes swooped down in front of Dumbledore, 
opened his beak wide, and swallowed the jet of green 
light whole. He burst into flame and fell to the floor, 
small, wrinkled, and flightless. At the same moment, 
Dumbledore brandished his wand in one, long, fluid 
movement 멪 the snake, which had been an instant 
from sinking its fangs into him, flew high into the air 
and vanished in a wisp of dark smoke; the water in 
the pool rose up and covered Voldemort like a cocoon 
of molten glass 멪 

For a few seconds Voldemort was visible only as a 
dark, rippling, faceless figure, shimmering and 
indistinct upon the plinth, clearly struggling to throw 
off the suffocating mass 멪 

Then he was gone, and the water fell with a crash 
back into its pool, slopping wildly over the sides, 
drenching the polished floor. 

몮MASTER!몯 screamed Bellatrix. 

Sure it was over, sure Voldemort had decided to flee, 
Harry made to run out from behind his statue guard, 
but Dumbledore bellowed, 몮Stay where you are, 

Harry!몯 

For the first time, Dumbledore sounded frightened. 
Harry could not see why. The hall was quite empty 
but for themselves, the sobbing Bellatrix still trapped 

| 1040Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




under her statue, and the tiny baby Fawkes croaking 
feebly on the floor 멪 

And then Harry몭s scar burst open. He knew he was 
dead: it was pain beyond imagining, pain past 
endurance 멪 

He was gone from the hall, he was locked in the coils 
of a creature with red eyes, so tightly bound that 
Harry did not know where his body ended and the 
creature몭s began. They were fused together, bound by 
pain, and there was no escape 멪 

And when the creature spoke, it used Harry몭s mouth, 
so that in his agony he felt his jaw move... 

몮 Kill me now, Dumbledore...몯 

Blinded and dying, every part of him screaming for 
release, Harry felt the creature use him again... 

몮If death is nothing, Dumbledore, kill the boy...몯 

Let the pain stop, thought Harry. Let him kill us... End 
it, Dumbledore... Death is nothing compared to this... 

And I몭ll see Sirius again... 

And as Harry몭s heart filled with emotion, the 
creature몭s coils loosened, the pain was gone, Harry 
was lying facedown on the floor, his glasses gone, 
shivering as though he lay upon ice, not wood... 

And there were voices echoing through the hall, more 
voices than there should have been: Harry opened his 
eyes, saw his glasses lying at the heel of the headless 
statue that had been guarding him, but which now 
lay flat on its back, cracked and immobile. He put 



| 1041Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




them on and raised his head an inch to find 
Dumbledore몭s crooked nose inches from his own. 



몮Are you all right, Harry?몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Harry, shaking so violently he could not 
hold his head up properly. 몮Yeah, I몭m 멪 where몭s 
Voldemort, where 멪 who are all these 멪 what몭s 멪 몯 

The Atrium was full of people. The floor was reflecting 
emerald-green flames that had burst into life in all 
the fireplaces along one wall, and a stream of witches 
and wizards was emerging from them. As Dumbledore 
pulled him back to his feet, Harry saw the tiny gold 
statues of the house-elf and the goblin leading a 
stunned-looking Cornelius Fudge forward. 

몮He was there!몯 shouted a scarlet-robed man with a 
ponytail, who was pointing at a pile of golden rubble 
on the other side of the hall, where Bellatrix had lain 
trapped moments before. 몮I saw him, Mr. Fudge, I 
swear, it was You-Know-Who, he grabbed a woman 
and Disapparated!몯 

몮I know, Williamson, I know, I saw him too!몯 gibbered 
Fudge, who was wearing pajamas under his 
pinstriped cloak and was gasping as though he had 
just run miles. 몮Merlin몭s beard 멪 here 멪 here! 멪 in 
the Ministry of Magic! 멪 great heavens above 멪 it 
doesn몭t seem possible 멪 my word 멪 how can this 
be?몯 

몮If you proceed downstairs into the Department of 
Mysteries, Cornelius,몯 said Dumbledore, apparently 
satisfied that Harry was all right, and walking forward 
so that the newcomers realized he was there for the 
first time (a few of them raised their wands, others 
simply looked amazed; the statues of the elf and 
goblin applauded and Fudge jumped so much that 
| 1042Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




his slipper-clad feet left the floor), 몮you will find 
several escaped Death Eaters contained in the Death 
Chamber, bound by an Anti-Disapparation Jinx and 
awaiting your decision as to what to do with them.몯 

몮Dumbledore!몯 gasped Fudge, apparently beside 
himself with amazement. 몮You 멪 here 멪 I 멪 I 멪 몯 

He looked wildly around at the Aurors he had brought 
with him, and it could not have been clearer that he 
was in half a mind to cry, 몮Seize him!몯 

몮Cornelius, I am ready to fight your men 멪 and win 
again!몯 said Dumbledore in a thunderous voice. 몮But 
a few minutes ago you saw proof, with your own eyes, 
that I have been telling you the truth for a year. Lord 
Voldemort has returned, you have been chasing the 
wrong men for twelve months, and it is time you 
listened to sense!몯 

몮I 멪 don몭t 멪 well 멪 몯 blustered Fudge, looking around 
as though hoping somebody was going to tell him 
what to do. When nobody did, he said, 몮Very well 멪 
Dawlish! Williamson! Go down to the Department of 
Mysteries and see ... Dumbledore, you 멪 you will 
need to tell me exactly 멪 the Fountain of Magical 
Brethren 멪 what happened?몯 he added in a kind of 
whimper, staring around at the floor, where the 
remains of the statues of the witch, wizard, and 
centaur now lay scattered. 

몮We can discuss that after I have sent Harry back to 
Hogwarts,몯 said Dumbledore. 

몮Harry 멪 Harry Potter?몯 

Fudge spun around and stared at Harry, who was 
still standing against the wall beside the fallen statue 



| 1043Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




that had been guarding him during Dumbledore and 
Voldemort몭s duel. 

몮He-here?몯 said Fudge. 몮Why 멪 what몭s all this 
about?몯 

몮I shall explain everything,몯 repeated Dumbledore, 
몮when Harry is back at school.몯 

He walked away from the pool to the place where the 
golden wizard몭s head lay on the floor. He pointed his 
wand at it and muttered, 몮Portus.몯 The head glowed 
blue and trembled noisily against the wooden floor for 
a few seconds, then became still once more. 

몮Now see here, Dumbledore!몯 said Fudge, as 
Dumbledore picked up the head and walked back to 
Harry carrying it. 몮You haven몭t got authorization for 
that Portkey! You can몭t do things like that right in 
front of the Minister of Magic, you 멪 you 멪 몯 

His voice faltered as Dumbledore surveyed him 
magisterially over his half-moon spectacles. 

몮You will give the order to remove Dolores Umbridge 
from Hogwarts,몯 said Dumbledore. 몮You will tell your 
Aurors to stop searching for my Care of Magical 
Creatures teacher so that he can return to work. I will 
give you ...몯 Dumbledore pulled a watch with twelve 
hands from his pocket and glanced at it, 몮half an 
hour of my time tonight, in which I think we shall be 
more than able to cover the important points of what 
has happened here. After that, I shall need to return 
to my school. If you need more help from me you are, 
of course, more than welcome to contact me at 
Hogwarts. Letters addressed to the headmaster will 
find me.몯 



| 1044Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Fudge goggled worse than ever. His mouth was open 
and his round face grew pinker under his rumpled 
gray hair. 

몮I 멪 you 멪 몯 

Dumbledore turned his back on him. 

몮Take this Portkey, Harry.몯 

He held out the golden head of the statue, and Harry 
placed his hand upon it, past caring what he did next 
or where he went. 

몮I shall see you in half an hour,몯 said Dumbledore 
quietly. 몮One ... two ... three ...몯 

Harry felt the familiar sensation of a hook being 
jerked behind his navel. The polished wooden floor 
was gone from beneath his feet; the Atrium, Fudge, 
and Dumbledore had all disappeared, and he was 
flying forward in a whirlwind of color and sound. . . 



| 1045Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






THE LOST PROPHECY 

Harry몭s feet hit solid ground again; his knees buckled 
a little and the golden wizard몭s head fell with a 
resounding clunk to the floor. He looked around and 
saw that he had arrived in Dumbledore몭s office. 

Everything seemed to have repaired itself during the 
headmaster몭s absence. The delicate silver instruments 
stood again upon the spindle-legged tables, puffing 
and whirring serenely. The portraits of the 
headmasters and headmistresses were snoozing in 
their frames, heads lolling back in armchairs or 
against the edge of their pictures. Harry looked 
through the window. There was a cool line of pale 
green along the horizon: Dawn was approaching. 

The silence and the stillness, broken only by the 
occasional grunt or snuffle of a sleeping portrait, was 
unbearable to him. If his surroundings could have 
reflected the feelings inside him, the pictures would 
have been screaming in pain. He walked around the 
quiet, beautiful office, breathing quickly, trying not to 
think. But he had to think... There was no escape... 
| 1046Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



It was his fault Sirius had died; it was all his fault. If 
he, Harry, had not been stupid enough to fall for 
Voldemort몭s trick, if he had not been so convinced 
that what he had seen in his dream was real, if he 
had only opened his mind to the possibility that 
Voldemort was, as Hermione had said, banking on 
Harry몭s love of playing the hero . . . 

It was unbearable, he would not think about it, he 
could not stand it... There was a terrible hollow inside 
him he did not want to feel or examine, a dark hole 
where Sirius had been, where Sirius had vanished. 

He did not want to have to be alone with that great, 
silent space, he could not stand it 멪 

A picture behind him gave a particularly loud 
grunting snore, and a cool voice said, 몮Ah ... Harry 
Potter ...몯 

Phineas Nigellus gave a long yawn, stretching his 
arms as he watched Harry with shrewd, narrow eyes. 

몮And what brings you here in the early hours of the 
morning?몯 said Phineas. 몮This office is supposed to be 
barred to all but the rightful headmaster. Or has 
Dumbledore sent you here? Oh, don몭t tell me ...몯 He 
gave another shuddering yawn. 몮Another message for 
my worthless great-great-grandson?몯 

Harry could not speak. Phineas Nigellus did not know 
that Sirius was dead, but Harry could not tell him. To 
say it aloud would be to make it final, absolute, 
irretrievable. 

A few more of the portraits had stirred now. Terror of 
being interrogated made Harry stride across the room 
and seize the doorknob. 



It would not turn. He was shut in. 

| 1047Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I hope this means,몯 said the corpulent, red-nosed 
wizard who hung on the wall behind Dumbledore몭s 
desk, 몮that Dumbledore will soon be back with us?몯 

Harry turned. The wizard was eyeing him with great 
interest. Harry nodded. He tugged again on the 
doorknob behind his back, but it remained 
immovable. 

몮Oh good,몯 said the wizard. 몮It has been very dull 
without him, very dull indeed.몯 

He settled himself on the thronelike chair on which he 
had been painted and smiled benignly upon Harry. 

몮Dumbledore thinks very highly of you, as I am sure 
you know,몯 he said comfortably. 몮Oh yes. Holds you 
in great esteem.몯 

The guilt filling the whole of Harry몭s chest like some 
monstrous, weighty parasite now writhed and 
squirmed. Harry could not stand this, he could not 
stand being Harry anymore... He had never felt more 
trapped inside his own head and body, never wished 
so intensely that he could be somebody 멪 anybody 멪 
else... 

The empty fireplace burst into emerald-green flame, 
making Harry leap away from the door, staring at the 
man spinning inside the grate. As Dumbledore몭s tall 
form unfolded itself from the fire, the wizards and 
witches on the surrounding walls jerked awake. Many 
of them gave cries of welcome. 

몮Thank you,몯 said Dumbledore softly. 

He did not look at Harry at first, but walked over to 
the perch beside the door and withdrew, from an 
inside pocket of his robes, the tiny, ugly, featherless 

| 1048Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Fawkes, whom he placed gently on the tray of soft 
ashes beneath the golden post where the full-grown 
Fawkes usually stood. 

몮Well, Harry,몯 said Dumbledore, finally turning away 
from the baby bird, 몮you will be pleased to hear that 
none of your fellow students are going to suffer 
lasting damage from the night몭s events.몯 

Harry tried to say 몮Good,몯 but no sound came out. It 
seemed to him that Dumbledore was reminding him 
of the amount of damage he had caused by his 
actions tonight, and although Dumbledore was for 
once looking at him directly, and though his 
expression was kindly rather than accusatory, Harry 
could not bear to meet his eyes. 

몮Madam Pomfrey is patching everybody up now,몯 said 
Dumbledore. 몮Nymphadora Tonks may need to spend 
a little time in St. Mungo몭s, but it seems that she will 
make a full recovery.몯 

Harry contented himself with nodding at the carpet, 
which was growing lighter as the sky outside grew 
paler. He was sure that all the portraits around the 
room were listening eagerly to every word Dumbledore 
spoke, wondering where Dumbledore and Harry had 
been and why there had been injuries. 

몮I know how you are feeling, Harry,몯 said Dumbledore 
very quietly. 

몮No, you don몭t,몯 said Harry, and his voice was 
suddenly loud and strong. White-hot anger leapt 
inside him. Dumbledore knew nothing about his 
feelings. 

몮You see, Dumbledore?몯 said Phineas Nigellus slyly. 
몮Never try to understand the students. They hate it. 

| 1049Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




They would much rather be tragically misunderstood, 
wallow in self-pity, stew in their own 멪 몯 

몮That몭s enough, Phineas,몯 said Dumbledore. 

Harry turned his back on Dumbledore and stared 
determinedly out of the opposite window. He could 
see the Quidditch stadium in the distance. Sirius had 
appeared there once, disguised as the shaggy black 
dog, so he could watch Harry play. . . He had probably 
come to see whether Harry was as good as James had 
been... Harry had never asked him... 

몮There is no shame in what you are feeling, Harry,몯 
said Dumbledore 몭s voice. 몮On the contrary ... the fact 
that you can feel pain like this is your greatest 
strength.몯 

Harry felt the white-hot anger lick his insides, blazing 
in the terrible emptiness, filling him with the desire to 
hurt Dumbledore for his calmness and his empty 
words. 

몮My greatest strength, is it?몯 said Harry, his voice 
shaking as he stared out at the Quidditch stadium, 
no longer seeing it. 몮You haven몭t got a clue... You 
don몭t know ...몯 

몮What don몭t I know?몯 asked Dumbledore calmly. 

It was too much. Harry turned around, shaking with 
rage. 

몮I don몭t want to talk about how I feel, all right?몯 

몮Harry, suffering like this proves you are still a man! 
This pain is part of being human 멪 몯 



| 1050Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮THEN 멪 I 멪 DONT 멪 WANT 멪 TO-BE 멪 
HUMAN!몯 Harry roared, and he seized one of the 
delicate silver instruments from the spindle-legged 
table beside him and flung it across the room. It 
shattered into a hundred tiny pieces against the wall. 
Several of the pictures let out yells of anger and 
fright, and the portrait of Armando Dippet said, 
a Reallyl몯 

몮I DONT CARE!몯 Harry yelled at them, snatching up a 
lunascope and throwing it into the fireplace. 몮I몭VE 
HAD ENOUGH, IVE SEEN ENOUGH, I WANT OUT, I 
WANT IT TO END, I DONT CARE ANYMORE 멪 몯 

He seized the table on which the silver instrument 
had stood and threw that too. It broke apart on the 
floor and the legs rolled in different directions. 

몮You do care,몯 said Dumbledore. He had not flinched 
or made a single move to stop Harry demolishing his 
office. His expression was calm, almost detached. 

몮You care so much you feel as though you will bleed 
to death with the pain of it.몯 

몮I 멪 DONT!몯 Harry screamed, so loudly that he felt 
his throat might tear, and for a second he wanted to 
rush at Dumbledore and break him too; shatter that 
calm old face, shake him, hurt him, make him feel 
some tiny part of the horror inside Harry. 

몮Oh yes, you do,몯 said Dumbledore, still more calmly. 
몮You have now lost your mother, your father, and the 
closest thing to a parent you have ever known. Of 
course you care.몯 

몮YOU DONT KNOW HOW I FEEL!몯 Harry roared. 

몮YOU 멪 STANDING THERE 멪 YOU 멪 몯 



| 1051Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




But words were no longer enough, smashing things 
was no more help. He wanted to run, he wanted to 
keep running and never look back, he wanted to be 
somewhere he could not see the clear blue eyes 
staring at him, that hatefully calm old face. He ran to 
the door, seized the doorknob again, and wrenched at 
it. 

But the door would not open. 

Harry turned back to Dumbledore. 

몮Let me out,몯 he said. He was shaking from head to 
foot. 

몮No,몯 said Dumbledore simply. 

For a few seconds they stared at each other. 

몮Let me out,몯 Harry said again. 

몮No,몯 Dumbledore repeated. 

몮If you don몭t 멪 if you keep me in here 멪 if you don몭t 
let me 멪 몯 

몮By all means continue destroying my possessions,몯 
said Dumbledore serenely. 몮I daresay I have too 
many.몯 

He walked around his desk and sat down behind it, 
watching Harry. 

몮Let me out,몯 Harry said yet again, in a voice that was 
cold and almost as calm as Dumbledore 몭s. 

몮Not until I have had my say,몯 said Dumbledore. 



| 1052Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Do you 멪 do you think I want to 멪 do you think I 
give a 멪 I DONT CARE WHAT YOUVE GOT TO SAY!몯 
Harry roared. 몮I don몭t want to hear anything you몭ve 
got to say!몯 

몮You will,몯 said Dumbledore sadly. 몮Because you are 
not nearly as angry with me as you ought to be. If you 
are to attack me, as I know you are close to doing, I 
would like to have thoroughly earned it.몯 

몮What are you talking 멪 ?몯 

몮It is my fault that Sirius died,몯 said Dumbledore 
clearly. 몮Or I should say almost entirely my fault 멪 I 
will not be so arrogant as to claim responsibility for 
the whole. Sirius was a brave, clever, and energetic 
man, and such men are not usually content to sit at 
home in hiding while they believe others to be in 
danger. Nevertheless, you should never have believed 
for an instant that there was any necessity for you to 
go to the Department of Mysteries tonight. If I had 
been open with you, Harry, as I should have been, 
you would have known a long time ago that 
Voldemort might try and lure you to the Department 
of Mysteries, and you would never have been tricked 
into going there tonight. And Sirius would not have 
had to come after you. That blame lies with me, and 
with me alone.몯 

Harry was still standing with his hand on the 
doorknob but he was unaware of it. He was gazing at 
Dumbledore, hardly breathing, listening yet barely 
understanding what he was hearing. 

몮Please sit down,몯 said Dumbledore. It was not an 
order, it was a request. 



| 1053Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry hesitated, then walked slowly across the room 
now littered with silver cogs and fragments of wood 
and took the seat facing Dumbledore 몭s desk. 

몮Am I to understand,몯 said Phineas Nigellus slowly 
from Harry몭s left, 몮that my great-great-grandson 멪 
the last of the Blacks 멪 is dead?몯 

몮Yes, Phineas,몯 said Dumbledore. 

몮I don몭t believe it,몯 said Phineas brusquely. 

Harry turned his head in time to see Phineas 
marching out of his portrait and knew that he had 
gone to visit his other painting in Grimmauld Place. 
He would walk, perhaps, from portrait to portrait, 
calling for Sirius through the house... 

몮Harry, I owe you an explanation,몯 said Dumbledore. 
몮An explanation of an old man몭s mistakes. For I see 
now that what I have done, and not done, with regard 
to you, bears all the hallmarks of the failings of age. 
Youth cannot know how age thinks and feels. But old 
men are guilty if they forget what it was to be young 
... and I seem to have forgotten lately...몯 

The sun was rising properly now. There was a rim of 
dazzling orange visible over the mountains and the 
sky above it was colorless and bright. The light fell 
upon Dumbledore, upon the silver of his eyebrows 
and beard, upon the lines gouged deeply into his face. 

몮I guessed, fifteen years ago,몯 said Dumbledore, 

몮when I saw the scar upon your forehead, what it 
might mean. I guessed that it might be the sign of a 
connection forged between you and Voldemort.몯 



| 1054Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮You몭ve told me this before, Professor,몯 said Harry 
bluntly. He did not care about being rude. He did not 
care about anything very much anymore. 

몮Yes,몯 said Dumbledore apologetically. 몮Yes, but you 
see 멪 it is necessary to start with your scar. For it 
became apparent, shortly after you rejoined the 
magical world, that I was correct, and that your scar 
was giving you warnings when Voldemort was close to 
you, or else feeling powerful emotion.몯 

몮I know,몯 said Harry wearily. 

몮And this ability of yours 멪 to detect Voldemort몭s 
presence, even when he is disguised, and to know 
what he is feeling when his emotions are roused 멪 
has become more and more pronounced since 
Voldemort returned to his own body and his full 
powers.몯 

Harry did not bother to nod. He knew all of this 
already. 

몮More recently,몯 said Dumbledore, 몮I became 
concerned that Voldemort might realize that this 
connection between you exists. Sure enough, there 
came a time when you entered so far into his mind 
and thoughts that he sensed your presence. I am 
speaking, of course, of the night when you witnessed 
the attack on Mr. Weasley.몯 

몮Yeah, Snape told me,몯 Harry muttered. 

몮Professor Snape, Harry,몯 Dumbledore corrected him 
quietly. 몮But did you not wonder why it was not I who 
explained this to you? Why I did not teach you 
Occlumency? Why I had not so much as looked at 
you for months?몯 



| 1055Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry looked up. He could see now that Dumbledore 
looked sad and tired. 

몮Yeah,몯 Harry mumbled. 몮Yeah, I wondered.몯 

몮You see,몯 continued Dumbledore heavily. 몮I believed 
it could not be long before Voldemort attempted to 
force his way into your mind, to manipulate and 
misdirect your thoughts, and I was not eager to give 
him more incentives to do so. I was sure that if he 
realized that our relationship was 멪 or had ever been 
멪 closer than that of headmaster and pupil, he would 
seize his chance to use you as a means to spy on me. 

I feared the uses to which he would put you, the 
possibility that he might try and possess you. Harry, I 
believe I was right to think that Voldemort would have 
made use of you in such a way. On those rare 
occasions when we had close contact, I thought I saw 
a shadow of him stir behind your eyes... I was trying, 
in distancing myself from you, to protect you. An old 
man몭s mistake ...몯 

Harry remembered the feeling that a dormant snake 
had risen in him, ready to strike, on those occasions 
when he and Dumbledore made eye contact. 

몮Voldemort몭s aim in possessing you, as he 
demonstrated tonight, would not have been my 
destruction. It would have been yours. He hoped, 
when he possessed you briefly a short while ago, that 
I would sacrifice you in the hope of killing him.몯 

He sighed deeply. Harry was letting the words wash 
over him. He would have been so interested to know 
all this a few months ago, and now it was 
meaningless compared to the gaping chasm inside 
him that was the loss of Sirius, none of it mattered ... 



| 1056Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Sirius told me that you felt Voldemort awake inside 
you the very night that you had the vision of Arthur 
Weasley몭s attack. I knew at once that my worst fears 
were correct: Voldemort from that point had realized 
he could use you. In an attempt to arm you against 
Voldemort몭s assaults on your mind, I arranged 
Occlumency lessons with Professor Snape.몯 

He paused. Harry watched the sunlight, which was 
sliding slowly across the polished surface of 
Dumbledore몭s desk, illuminate a silver ink pot and a 
handsome scarlet quill. Harry could tell that the 
portraits all around them were awake and listening 
raptly to Dumbledore몭s explanation. He could hear 
the occasional rustle of robes, the slight clearing of a 
throat. Phineas Nigellus had still not returned... 

몮Professor Snape discovered,몯 Dumbledore resumed, 
몮that you had been dreaming about the door to the 
Department of Mysteries for months. Voldemort, of 
course, had been obsessed with the possibility of 
hearing the prophecy ever since he regained his body, 
and as he dwelled on the door, so did you, though 
you did not know what it meant. 

몮And then you saw Rookwood, who worked in the 
Department of Mysteries before his arrest, telling 
Voldemort what we had known all along 멪 that the 
prophecies held in the Ministry of Magic are heavily 
protected. Only the people to whom they refer can lift 
them from the shelves without suffering madness. In 
this case, either Voldemort himself would have to 
enter the Ministry of Magic and risk revealing himself 
at last 멪 or else you would have to take it for him. It 
became a matter of even greater urgency that you 
should master Occlumency.몯 

몮But I didn몭t,몯 muttered Harry. He said it aloud to try 
and ease the dead weight of guilt inside him; a 

| 1057Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




confession must surely relieve some of the terrible 
pressure squeezing his heart. 몮I didn몭t practice, I 
didn몭t bother, I could몭ve stopped myself having those 
dreams, Hermione kept telling me to do it, if I had 
he몭d never have been able to show me where to go, 
and 멪 Sirius wouldn몭t 멪 Sirius wouldn몭t 멪 몯 

Something was erupting inside Harry몭s head: a need 
to justify himself, to explain 멪 

몮I tried to check if he몭d really taken Sirius, I went to 
Umbridge몭s office, I spoke to Kreacher in the fire, and 
he said Sirius wasn몭t there, he said he몭d gone!몯 

몮Kreacher lied,몯 said Dumbledore calmly. 몮You are not 
his master, he could lie to you without even needing 
to punish himself. Kreacher intended you to go to the 
Ministry of Magic.몯 

몮He 멪 he sent me on purpose?몯 

몮Oh yes. Kreacher, I am afraid, has been serving more 
than one master for months.몯 

몮How?몯 said Harry blankly. 몮He hasn몭t been out of 
Grimmauld Place for years.몯 

몮Kreacher seized his opportunity shortly before 
Christmas,몯 said Dumbledore, 몮when Sirius, 
apparently, shouted at him to 몬get out.몭 He took Sirius 
at his word and interpreted this as an order to leave 
the house. He went to the only Black family member 
for whom he had any respect left... Black몭s cousin 
Narcissa, sister of Bellatrix and wife of Lucius 
Malfoy.몯 

몮How do you know all this?몯 Harry said. His heart was 
beating very fast. He felt sick. He remembered 
worrying about Kreacher몭s odd absence over 

| 1058Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Christmas, remembered him turning up again in the 
attic... 

몮Kreacher told me last night,몯 said Dumbledore. 몮You 
see, when you gave Professor Snape that cryptic 
warning, he realized that you had had a vision of 
Sirius trapped in the bowels of the Department of 
Mysteries. He, like you, attempted to contact Sirius at 
once. I should explain that members of the Order of 
the Phoenix have more reliable methods of 
communicating than the fire in Dolores Umbridge몭s 
office. Professor Snape found that Sirius was alive 
and safe in Grimmauld Place. 

몮When, however, you did not return from your trip 
into the forest with Dolores Umbridge, Professor 
Snape grew worried that you still believed Sirius to be 
a captive of Lord Voldemort몭s. He alerted certain 
Order members at once.몯 

Dumbledore heaved a great sigh and then said, 
몮Alastor Moody, Nymphadora Tonks, Kingsley 
Shacklebolt, and Remus Lupin were at headquarters 
when he made contact. All agreed to go to your aid at 
once. Professor Snape requested that Sirius remain 
behind, as he needed somebody to remain at 
headquarters to tell me what had happened, for I was 
due there at any moment. In the meantime he, 
Professor Snape, intended to search the forest for 
you. 

몮But Sirius did not wish to remain behind while the 
others went to search for you. He delegated to 
Kreacher the task of telling me what had happened. 
And so it was that when I arrived in Grimmauld Place 
shortly after they had all left for the Ministry, it was 
the elf who told me 멪 laughing fit to burst 멪 where 
Sirius had gone.몯 



| 1059Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮He was laughing?몯 said Harry in a hollow voice. 

몮Oh yes,몯 said Dumbledore. 몮You see, Kreacher was 
not able to betray us totally. He is not Secret-Keeper 
for the Order, he could not give the Malfoys our 
whereabouts or tell them any of the Order몭s 
confidential plans that he had been forbidden to 
reveal. He was bound by the enchantments of his 
kind, which is to say that he could not disobey a 
direct order from his master, Sirius. But he gave 
Narcissa information of the sort that is very valuable 
to Voldemort, yet must have seemed much too trivial 
for Sirius to think of banning him from repeating it.몯 

몮Like what?몯 said Harry. 

몮Like the fact that the person Sirius cared most about 
in the world was you,몯 said Dumbledore quietly. 몮Like 
the fact that you were coming to regard Sirius as a 
mixture of father and brother. Voldemort knew 
already, of course, that Sirius was in the Order, that 
you knew where he was 멪 but Kreacher몭s information 
made him realize that the one person whom you 
would go to any lengths to rescue was Sirius Black.몯 

Harry몭s lips were cold and numb. 

몮So . . . when I asked Kreacher if Sirius was there last 
night ...몯 

몮The Malfoys 멪 undoubtedly on Voldemort몭s 
instructions 멪 had told him he must find a way of 
keeping Sirius out of the way once you had seen the 
vision of Sirius being tortured. Then, if you decided to 
check whether Sirius was at home or not, Kreacher 
would be able to pretend he was not. Kreacher 
injured Buckbeak the hippogriff yesterday, and at the 
moment when you made your appearance in the fire, 
Sirius was upstairs trying to tend to him.몯 

| 1060Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




There seemed to be very little air in Harry몭s lungs, his 
breathing was quick and shallow. 

몮And Kreacher told you all this . . . and laughed?몯 he 
croaked. 

몮He did not wish to tell me,몯 said Dumbledore. 몮But I 
am a sufficiently accomplished Legilimens myself to 
know when I am being lied to and I 멪 persuaded him 

멪 to tell me the full story, before I left for the 
Department of Mysteries.몯 

몮And,몯 whispered Harry, his hands curled in cold fists 
on his knees, 몮and Hermione kept telling us to be nice 
to him 멪 몯 

몮She was quite right, Harry,몯 said Dumbledore. 몮I 
warned Sirius when we adopted twelve Grimmauld 
Place as our headquarters that Kreacher must be 
treated with kindness and respect. I also told him 
that Kreacher could be dangerous to us. I do not 
think that Sirius took me very seriously, or that he 
ever saw Kreacher as a being with feelings as acute as 
a humans 멪 몯 

몮Don몭t you blame 멪 don몭t you 멪 talk 멪 about Sirius 
like 멪 몯 Harry몭s breath was constricted, he could not 
get the words out properly. But the rage that had 
subsided so briefly had flared in him again; he would 
not let Dumbledore criticize Sirius. 몮Kreacher 몭s a lying 

멪 foul 멪 he deserved 멪 몯 

몮Kreacher is what he has been made by wizards, 
Harry,몯 said Dumbledore. 몮Yes, he is to be pitied. His 
existence has been as miserable as your friend 
Dobby몭s. He was forced to do Sirius몭s bidding, 
because Sirius was the last of the family to which he 
was enslaved, but he felt no true loyalty to him. And 



| 1061Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




whatever Kreacher몭s faults, it must be admitted that 
Sirius did nothing to make Kreacher몭s lot easier 멪 몯 

몮DON몭T TALK ABOUT SIRIUS LIKE THAT!몯 Harry 
yelled. 

He was on his feet again, furious, ready to fly at 
Dumbledore, who had plainly not understood Sirius 
at all, how brave he was, how much he had suffered 



몮What about Snape?몯 Harry spat. 몮You몭re not talking 
about him, are you? When I told him Voldemort had 
Sirius he just sneered at me as usual 멪 몯 

몮Harry, you know that Professor Snape had no choice 
but to pretend not to take you seriously in front of 
Dolores Umbridge,몯 said Dumbledore steadily, 몮but as 
I have explained, he informed the Order as soon as 
possible about what you had said. It was he who 
deduced where you had gone when you did not return 
from the forest. It was he too who gave Professor 
Umbridge fake Veritaserum when she was attempting 
to force you to tell of Sirius몭s whereabouts...몯 

Harry disregarded this; he felt a savage pleasure in 
blaming Snape, it seemed to be easing his own sense 
of dreadful guilt, and he wanted to hear Dumbledore 
agree with him. 

몮Snape 멪 Snape g-goaded Sirius about staying in the 
house 멪 he made out Sirius was a coward 멪 몯 

몮Sirius was much too old and clever to have allowed 
such feeble taunts to hurt him,몯 said Dumbledore. 

몮Snape stopped giving me Occlumency lessons!몯 

Harry snarled. 몮He threw me out of his office!몯 



| 1062Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮I am aware of it,몯 said Dumbledore heavily. 몮I have 
already said that it was a mistake for me not to teach 
you myself, though I was sure, at the time, that 
nothing could have been more dangerous than to 
open your mind even further to Voldemort while in 
my presence 멪 몯 

몮Snape made it worse, my scar always hurt worse 
after lessons with him 멪 몯 Harry remembered Ron몭s 
thoughts on the subject and plunged on. 몮How do you 
know he wasn몭t trying to soften me up for Voldemort, 
make it easier for him to get inside my 멪 몯 

몮I trust Severus Snape,몯 said Dumbledore simply. 

몮But I forgot 멪 another old man몭s mistake 멪 that 
some wounds run too deep for the healing. I thought 
Professor Snape could overcome his feelings about 
your father 멪 I was wrong.몯 

몮But that몭s okay, is it?몯 yelled Harry, ignoring the 
scandalized faces and disapproving mutterings of the 
portraits covering the walls. 몮It몭s okay for Snape to 
hate my dad, but it몭s not okay for Sirius to hate 
Kreacher?몯 

몮Sirius did not hate Kreacher,몯 said Dumbledore. 몮He 
regarded him as a servant unworthy of much interest 
or notice. Indifference and neglect often do much 
more damage than outright dislike... The fountain we 
destroyed tonight told a lie. We wizards have 
mistreated and abused our fellows for too long, and 
we are now reaping our reward.몯 

몮SO SIRIUS DESERVED WHAT HE GOT, DID HE?몯 
Harry yelled. 

몮I did not say that, nor will you ever hear me say it,몯 
Dumbledore replied quietly. 몮Sirius was not a cruel 
man, he was kind to house-elves in general. He had 

| 1063Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




no love for Kreacher, because Kreacher was a living 
reminder of the home Sirius had hated.몯 

몮Yeah, he did hate it!몯 said Harry, his voice cracking, 
turning his back on Dumbledore and walking away. 
The sun was bright inside the room now, and the eyes 
of all the portraits followed him as he walked, without 
realizing what he was doing, without seeing the office 
at all. 몮You made him stay shut up in that house and 
he hated it, that몭s why he wanted to get out last night 



몮I was trying to keep Sirius alive,몯 said Dumbledore 
quietly. 

몮People don몭t like being locked up!몯 Harry said 
furiously, rounding on him. 몮You did it to me all last 
summer 멪 몯 

Dumbledore closed his eyes and buried his face in his 
long-fingered hands. Harry watched him, but this 
uncharacteristic sign of exhaustion, or sadness, or 
whatever it was from Dumbledore, did not soften him. 
On the contrary, he felt even angrier that Dumbledore 
was showing signs of weakness. He had no business 
being weak when Harry wanted to rage and storm at 
him. 

Dumbledore lowered his hands and surveyed Harry 
through his half-moon glasses. 

몮It is time,몯 he said, 몮for me to tell you what I should 
have told you five years ago, Harry. Please sit down. I 
am going to tell you everything. I ask only a little 
patience. You will have your chance to rage at me 멪 
to do whatever you like 멪 when I have finished. I will 
not stop you.몯 



| 1064Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry glared at him for a moment, then flung himself 
back into the chair opposite Dumbledore and waited. 
Dumbledore stared for a moment at the sunlit 
grounds outside the window, then looked back at 
Harry and said, 몮Five years ago you arrived at 
Hogwarts, Harry, safe and whole, as I had planned 
and intended. Well 멪 not quite whole. You had 
suffered. I knew you would when I left you on your 
aunt and uncle몭s doorstep. I knew I was condemning 
you to ten dark and difficult years.몯 

He paused. Harry said nothing. 

몮You might ask 멪 and with good reason 멪 why it had 
to be so. Why could some Wizarding family not have 
taken you in? Many would have done so more than 
gladly, would have been honored and delighted to 
raise you as a son. 

몮My answer is that my priority was to keep you alive. 
You were in more danger than perhaps anyone but 
myself realized. Voldemort had been vanquished 
hours before, but his supporters 멪 and many of them 
are almost as terrible as he 멪 were still at large, 
angry, desperate, and violent. And I had to make my 
decision too with regard to the years ahead. Did I 
believe that Voldemort was gone forever? No. I knew 
not whether it would be ten, twenty, or fifty years 
before he returned, but I was sure he would do so, 
and I was sure too, knowing him as I have done, that 
he would not rest until he killed you. 

몮I knew that Voldemort 몭s knowledge of magic is 
perhaps more extensive than any wizard alive. I knew 
that even my most complex and powerful protective 
spells and charms were unlikely to be invincible if he 
ever returned to full power. 



| 1065Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮But I knew too where Voldemort was weak. And so I 
made my decision. You would be protected by an 
ancient magic of which he knows, which he despises, 
and which he has always, therefore, underestimated 
멪 to his cost. I am speaking, of course, of the fact 
that your mother died to save you. She gave you a 
lingering protection he never expected, a protection 
that flows in your veins to this day. I put my trust, 
therefore, in your mother몭s blood. I delivered you to 
her sister, her only remaining relative.몯 

몮She doesn몭t love me,몯 said Harry at once. 몮She 
doesn몭t give a damn 멪 몯 

몮But she took you,몯 Dumbledore cut across him. 몮She 
may have taken you grudgingly, furiously, 
unwillingly, bitterly, yet still she took you, and in 
doing so, she sealed the charm I placed upon you. 

Your mother몭s sacrifice made the bond of blood the 
strongest shield I could give you.몯 

몮I still don몭t 멪 몯 

몮While you can still call home the place where your 
mother몭s blood dwells, there you cannot be touched or 
harmed by Voldemort. He shed her blood, but it lives 
on in you and her sister. Her blood became your 
refuge. You need return there only once a year, but as 
long as you can still call it home, there he cannot 
hurt you. Your aunt knows this. I explained what I 
had done in the letter I left, with you, on her 
doorstep. She knows that allowing you houseroom 
may well have kept you alive for the past fifteen 
years.몯 

몮Wait,몯 said Harry. 몮Wait a moment.몯 

He sat up straighter in his chair, staring at 
Dumbledore. 

| 1066Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮You sent that Howler. You told her to remember 멪 it 
was your voice 멪 몯 

몮I thought,몯 said Dumbledore, inclining his head 
slightly, 몮that she might need reminding of the pact 
she had sealed by taking you. I suspected the 
dementor attack might have awoken her to the 
dangers of having you as a surrogate son.몯 

몮It did,몯 said Harry quietly. 몮Well 멪 my uncle more 
than her. He wanted to chuck me out, but after the 
Howler came she 멪 she said I had to stay.몯 He stared 
at the floor for a moment, then said, 몮But what몭s this 
got to do with ...몯 

He could not say Sirius몭s name. 

몮Five years ago, then,몯 continued Dumbledore, as 
though he had not paused in his story, 몮you arrived 
at Hogwarts, neither as happy nor as well nourished 
as I would have liked, perhaps, yet alive and healthy. 
You were not a pampered little prince, but as normal 
a boy as I could have hoped under the circumstances. 
Thus far, my plan was working well. 

몮And then ... well, you will remember the events of 
your first year at Hogwarts quite as clearly as I do. 

You rose magnificently to the challenge that faced 
you, and sooner 멪 much sooner 멪 than I had 
anticipated, you found yourself face-to-face with 
Voldemort. You survived again. You did more. You 
delayed his return to full power and strength. You 
fought a man몭s fight. I was ... prouder of you than I 
can say. 

몮Yet there was a flaw in this wonderful plan of mine,몯 
said Dumbledore. 몮An obvious flaw that I knew, even 
then, might be the undoing of it all. And yet, knowing 
how important it was that my plan should succeed, I 

| 1067Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




told myself that I would not permit this flaw to min it. 

I alone could prevent this, so I alone must be strong. 
And here was my first test, as you lay in the hospital 
wing, weak from your struggle with Voldemort.몯 

몮I don몭t understand what you몭re saying,몯 said Harry. 

몮Don몭t you remember asking me, as you lay in the 
hospital wing, why Voldemort had tried to kill you 
when you were a baby?몯 

Harry nodded. 

몮Ought I to have told you then?몯 

Harry stared into the blue eyes and said nothing, but 
his heart was racing again. 

몮You do not see the flaw in the plan yet? No ... 
perhaps not. Well, as you know, I decided not to 
answer you. Eleven, I told myself, was much too 
young to know. I had never intended to tell you when 
you were eleven. The knowledge would be too much at 
such a young age. 

몮I should have recognized the danger signs then. I 
should have asked myself why I did not feel more 
disturbed that you had already asked me the question 
to which I knew, one day, I must give a terrible 
answer. I should have recognized that I was too happy 
to think that I did not have to do it on that particular 
day. . . You were too young, much too young. 

몮And so we entered your second year at Hogwarts. 

And once again you met challenges even grown 
wizards have never faced. Once again you acquitted 
yourself beyond my wildest dreams. You did not ask 
me again, however, why Voldemort had left that mark 
upon you. We discussed your scar, oh yes... We came 
| 1068Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




very, very close to the subject. Why did I not tell you 
everything? 

몮Well, it seemed to me that twelve was, after all, 
hardly better than eleven to receive such information. 

I allowed you to leave my presence, bloodstained, 
exhausted but exhilarated, and if I felt a twinge of 
unease that I ought, perhaps, have told you then, it 
was swiftly silenced. You were still so young, you see, 
and I could not find it in me to spoil that night of 
triumph... 

몮Do you see, Harry? Do you see the flaw in my 
brilliant plan now? I had fallen into the trap I had 
foreseen, that I had told myself I could avoid, that I 
must avoid.몯 

몮I don몭t 멪 몯 

몮I cared about you too much,몯 said Dumbledore 
simply. 몮I cared more for your happiness than your 
knowing the truth, more for your peace of mind than 
my plan, more for your life than the lives that might 
be lost if the plan failed. In other words, I acted 
exactly as Voldemort expects we fools who love to act. 

몮Is there a defense? I defy anyone who has watched 
you as I have 멪 and I have watched you more closely 
than you can have imagined 멪 not to want to save 
you more pain than you had already suffered. What 
did I care if numbers of nameless and faceless people 
and creatures were slaughtered in the vague future, if 
in the here and now you were alive, and well, and 
happy? I never dreamed that I would have such a 
person on my hands. 

몮We entered your third year. I watched from afar as 
you struggled to repel dementors, as you found 
Sirius, learned what he was and rescued him. Was I 

| 1069Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




to tell you then, at the moment when you had 
triumphantly snatched your godfather from the jaws 
of the Ministry? But now, at the age of thirteen, my 
excuses were running out. Young you might be, but 
you had proved you were exceptional. My conscience 
was uneasy, Harry. I knew the time must come 
soon... 

몮But you came out of the maze last year, having 
watched Cedric Diggory die, having escaped death so 
narrowly yourself . . . and I did not tell you, though I 
knew, now Voldemort had returned, I must do it 
soon. And now, tonight, I know you have long been 
ready for the knowledge I have kept from you for so 
long, because you have proved that I should have 
placed the burden upon you before this. My only 
defense is this: I have watched you struggling under 
more burdens than any student who has ever passed 
through this school, and I could not bring myself to 
add another 멪 the greatest one of all.몯 

Harry waited, but Dumbledore did not speak. 

몮I still don몭t understand.몯 

몮Voldemort tried to kill you when you were a child 
because of a prophecy made shortly before your birth. 
He knew the prophecy had been made, though he did 
not know its full contents. He set out to kill you when 
you were still a baby, believing he was fulfilling the 
terms of the prophecy. He discovered, to his cost, that 
he was mistaken, when the curse intended to kill you 
backfired. And so, since his return to his body, and 
particularly since your extraordinary escape from him 
last year, he has been determined to hear that 
prophecy in its entirety. This is the weapon he has 
been seeking so assiduously since his return: the 
knowledge of how to destroy you.몯 



| 1070Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The sun had risen fully now. Dumbledore몭s office was 
bathed in it. The glass case in which the sword of 
Godric Gryffindor resided gleamed white and opaque, 
the fragments of the instruments Harry had thrown to 
the floor glistened like raindrops, and behind him, the 
baby Fawkes made soft chirruping noises in his nest 
of ashes. 

몮The prophecy몭s smashed,몯 Harry said blankly. 몮I was 
pulling Neville up those benches in the 멪 the room 
where the archway was, and I ripped his robes and it 
fell...몯 

몮The thing that smashed was merely the record of the 
prophecy kept by the Department of Mysteries. But 
the prophecy was made to somebody, and that person 
has the means of recalling it perfectly.몯 

몮Who heard it?몯 asked Harry, though he thought he 
knew the answer already. 

몮I did,몯 said Dumbledore. 몮On a cold, wet night 
sixteen years ago, in a room above the bar at the 
Hog몭s Head Inn. I had gone there to see an applicant 
for the post of Divination teacher, though it was 
against my inclination to allow the subject of 
Divination to continue at all. The applicant, however, 
was the great-great-granddaughter of a very famous, 
very gifted Seer, and I thought it common politeness 
to meet her. I was disappointed. It seemed to me that 
she had not a trace of the gift herself. I told her, 
courteously I hope, that I did not think she would be 
suitable for the post. I turned to leave.몯 

Dumbledore got to his feet and walked past Harry to 
the black cabinet that stood beside Fawkes몭s perch. 

He bent down, slid back a catch, and took from inside 
it the shallow stone basin, carved with runes around 
the edges, in which Harry had seen his father 
| 1071Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




tormenting Snape. Dumbledore walked back to the 
desk, placed the Pensieve upon it, and raised his 
wand to his own temple. From it, he withdrew silvery, 
gossamer-fine strands of thought clinging to the 
wand, and deposited them in the basin. He sat back 
down behind his desk and watched his thoughts swirl 
and drift inside the Pensieve for a moment. Then, 
with a sigh, he raised his wand and prodded the 
silvery substance with its tip. 

A figure rose out of it, draped in shawls, her eyes 
magnified to enormous size behind her glasses, and 
she revolved slowly, her feet in the basin. But when 
Sibyll Trelawney spoke, it was not in her usual 
ethereal, mystic voice, but in the harsh, hoarse tones 
Harry had heard her use once before. 

몮The one with the power to vanquish the Dark Lord 
approaches... Born to those who have thrice defied 
him, born as the seventh month dies . . . and the Dark 
Lord will mark him as his equal, but he will have 
power the Dark Lord knows not ... and either must die 
at the hand of the other for neither can live while the 
other survives... The one with the power to vanquish 
the Dark Lord will be born as the seventh month 
dies...몯 

The slowly revolving Professor Trelawney sank back 
into the silver mass below and vanished. 

The silence within the office was absolute. Neither 
Dumbledore nor Harry nor any of the portraits made 
a sound. Even Fawkes had fallen silent. 

몮Professor Dumbledore?몯 Harry said very quietly, for 
Dumbledore, still staring at the Pensieve, seemed 
completely lost in thought. 몮It ... did that mean ... 
What did that mean?몯 



| 1072Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮It meant,몯 said Dumbledore, 몮that the person who 
has the only chance of conquering Lord Voldemort for 
good was born at the end of July, nearly sixteen years 
ago. This boy would be born to parents who had 
already defied Voldemort three times.몯 

Harry felt as though something was closing in upon 
him. His breathing seemed difficult again. 

몮It means 멪 me?몯 

Dumbledore surveyed him for a moment through his 
glasses. 

몮The odd thing is, Harry,몯 he said softly, 몮that it may 
not have meant you at all. Sibyll몭s prophecy could 
have applied to two wizard boys, both born at the end 
of July that year, both of whom had parents in the 
Order of the Phoenix, both sets of parents having 
narrowly escaped Voldemort three times. One, of 
course, was you. The other was Neville Longbottom.몯 

몮But then . . . but then, why was it my name on the 
prophecy and not Neville몭s?몯 

몮The official record was relabeled after Voldemort 몭s 
attack on you as a child,몯 said Dumbledore. 몮It 
seemed plain to the keeper of the Hall of Prophecy 
that Voldemort could only have tried to kill you 
because he knew you to be the one to whom Sibyll 
was referring.몯 

몮Then 멪 it might not be me?몯 said Harry. 

몮I am afraid,몯 said Dumbledore slowly, looking as 
though every word cost him a great effort, 몮that there 
is no doubt that it is you.몯 



| 1073Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮But you said 멪 Neville was born at the end of July 
too 멪 and his mum and dad 멪 몯 

몮You are forgetting the next part of the prophecy, the 
final identifying feature of the boy who could 
vanquish Voldemort... Voldemort himself would 몬mark 
him as his equal.몭 And so he did, Harry. He chose 
you, not Neville. He gave you the scar that has proved 
both blessing and curse.몯 

몮But he might have chosen wrong!몯 said Harry. 몮He 
might have marked the wrong person!몯 

몮He chose the boy he thought most likely to be a 
danger to him,몯 said Dumbledore. 몮And notice this, 
Harry. He chose, not the pureblood (which, according 
to his creed, is the only kind of wizard worth being or 
knowing), but the half-blood, like himself. He saw 
himself in you before he had ever seen you, and in 
marking you with that scar, he did not kill you, as he 
intended, but gave you powers, and a future, which 
have fitted you to escape him not once, but four times 
so far 멪 something that neither your parents, nor 
Neville몭s parents, ever achieved.몯 

몮Why did he do it, then?몯 said Harry, who felt numb 
and cold. 몮Why did he try and kill me as a baby? He 
should have waited to see whether Neville or I looked 
more dangerous when we were older and tried to kill 
whoever it was then 멪 몯 

몮That might, indeed, have been the more practical 
course,몯 said Dumbledore, 몮except that Voldemort몭s 
information about the prophecy was incomplete. The 
Hog몭s Head Inn, which Sibyll chose for its cheapness, 
has long attracted, shall we say, a more interesting 
clientele than the Three Broomsticks. As you and 
your friends found out to your cost, and I to mine 
that night, it is a place where it is never safe to 
| 1074Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




assume you are not being overheard. Of course, I had 
not dreamed, when I set out to meet Sibyll Trelawney, 
that I would hear anything worth overhearing. My 멪 
our 멪 one stroke of good fortune was that the 
eavesdropper was detected only a short way into the 
prophecy and thrown from the building.몯 

몮So he only heard ... ?몯 

몮He heard only the first part, the part foretelling the 
birth of a boy in July to parents who had thrice defied 
Voldemort. Consequently, he could not warn his 
master that to attack you would be to risk 
transferring power to you 멪 again marking you as his 
equal. So Voldemort never knew that there might be 
danger in attacking you, that it might be wise to wait 
or to learn more. He did not know that you would 
have 몬power the Dark Lord knows not몭 멪 몯 

몮But I don몭t!몯 said Harry in a strangled voice. 몮I 
haven몭t any powers he hasn몭t got, I couldn몭t fight the 
way he did tonight, I can몭t possess people or 멪 or kill 
them 멪 몯 

몮There is a room in the Department of Mysteries,몯 
interrupted Dumbledore, 몮that is kept locked at all 
times. It contains a force that is at once more 
wonderful and more terrible than death, than human 
intelligence, than forces of nature. It is also, perhaps, 
the most mysterious of the many subjects for study 
that reside there. It is the power held within that 
room that you possess in such quantities and which 
Voldemort has not at all. That power took you to save 
Sirius tonight. That power also saved you from 
possession by Voldemort, because he could not bear 
to reside in a body so full of the force he detests. In 
the end, it mattered not that you could not close your 
mind. It was your heart that saved you.몯 



| 1075Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry closed his eyes. If he had not gone to save 
Sirius, Sirius would not have died... More to stave off 
the moment when he would have to think of Sirius 
again, Harry asked, without caring much about the 
answer, 몮The end of the prophecy ... it was something 
about ... 몬neither can live...몭 몯 

몮 몬... while the other survives,몭 몯 said Dumbledore. 

몮So,몯 said Harry, dredging up the words from what felt 
like a deep well of despair inside him, 몮so does that 
mean that . . . that one of us has got to kill the other 
one ... in the end?몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Dumbledore. 

For a long time, neither of them spoke. Somewhere 
far beyond the office walls, Harry could hear the 
sound of voices, students heading down to the Great 
Hall for an early breakfast, perhaps. It seemed 
impossible that there could be people in the world 
who still desired food, who laughed, who neither knew 
nor cared that Sirius Black was gone forever. Sirius 
seemed a million miles away already, even if a part of 
Harry still believed that if he had only pulled back 
that veil, he would have found Sirius looking back at 
him, greeting him, perhaps, with his laugh like a 
bark. . . 

몮I feel I owe you another explanation, Harry,몯 said 
Dumbledore hesitantly. 몮You may, perhaps, have 
wondered why I never chose you as a prefect? I must 
confess ... that I rather thought ... you had enough 
responsibility to be going on with.몯 

Harry looked up at him and saw a tear trickling down 
Dumbledore 몭s face into his long silver beard. 



| 1076Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 






THE SECOND WAR BEGINS 

HE-WHO-MUST-NOT-BE-NAMED RETURNS 

In a brief statement Friday night, Minister of Magic 
Cornelius Fudge confirmed that He-Who-Must-Not-Be 
Named has returned to this country and is active 
once more. 

몮It is with great regret that I must confirm that the 
wizard styling himself Lord 멪 well, you know who I 
mean 멪 is alive and among us again,몯 said Fudge, 
looking tired and flustered as he addressed reporters. 
몮It is with almost equal regret that we report the mass 
revolt of the dementors of Azkaban, who have shown 
themselves averse to continuing in the Ministry몭s 
employ. We believe that the dementors are currently 
taking direction from Lord 멪 Thingy. 

몮We urge the magical population to remain vigilant The 
Ministry is currently publishing guides to elementary 
home and personal defense that will be delivered free 
to all Wizarding homes within the coming month. 몯 



| 1077Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 



The Minister몭s statement was met with dismay and 
alarm from the Wizarding community, which as 
recently as last Wednesday was receiving Ministry 
assurances that there was 몮no truth whatsoever in 
these persistent rumors that You-Know-Who is 
operating amongst us once more.몯 

Details of the events that led to the Ministry 
turnaround are still hazy, though it is believed that 
He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named and a select band of 
followers (known as Death Eaters) gained entry to the 
Ministry of Magic itself on Thursday evening. 

Albus Dumbledore, newly reinstated headmaster of 
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, 
reinstated member of the International Confederation 
of Wizards, and reinstated Chief Warlock of the 
Wizengamot, was unavailable for comment last night. 
He has insisted for a year that You-Know-Who was 
not dead, as was widely hoped and believed, but 
recruiting followers once more for a fresh attempt to 
seize power. Meanwhile the Boy Who Lived 멪 

몮There you are, Harry, I knew they몭d drag you into it 
somehow,몯 said Hermione, looking over the top of the 
paper at him. 

They were in the hospital wing. Harry was sitting on 
the end of Ron몭s bed and they were both listening to 
Hermione read the front page of the Sunday Prophet. 
Ginny, whose ankle had been mended in a trice by 
Madam Pomfrey, was curled up at the foot of 
Hermione몭s bed; Neville, whose nose had likewise 
been returned to its normal size and shape, was in a 
chair between the two beds; and Luna, who had 
dropped in to visit clutching the latest edition of The 
Quibbler, was reading the magazine upside down and 
apparently not taking in a word Hermione was saying. 



| 1078Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮He몭s 몬the Boy Who Lived몭 again now, though, isn몭t 
he?몯 said Ron darkly. 몮Not such a show-off maniac 
anymore, eh?몯 

He helped himself to a handful of Chocolate Frogs 
from the immense pile on his bedside cabinet, threw a 
few to Harry, Ginny, and Neville, and ripped off the 
wrapper of his own with his teeth. There were still 
deep welts on his forearms where the brain몭s tentacles 
had wrapped around him. According to Madam 
Pomfrey, thoughts could leave deeper scarring than 
almost anything else, though since she had started 
applying copious amounts of Dr. Ubbly몭s Oblivious 
Unction, there seemed to be some improvement. 

몮Yes, they몭re very complimentary about you now, 
Harry,몯 said Hermione, now scanning down the 
article. 몮 몬A lone voice of truth ... perceived as 
unbalanced, yet never wavered in his story . . . forced to 
bear ridicule and slander ...몭 Hmmm,몯 said Hermione, 
frowning, 몮I notice they don몭t mention the fact that it 
was them doing all the ridiculing and slandering, 
though...몯 

She winced slightly and put a hand to her ribs. The 
curse Dolohov had used on her, though less effective 
than it would have been had he been able to say the 
incantation aloud, had nevertheless caused, in 
Madam Pomfrey몭s words, 몮quite enough damage to be 
going on with.몯 Hermione was having to take ten 
different types of potion every day and although she 
was improving greatly, was already bored with the 
hospital wing. 

몮 몬You-Know- Who몭s Last Attempt to Take Over, pages 
two to four, What the Ministry Should Have Told Us, 
page five, Why Nobody Listened to Albus Dumbledore, 
pages six to eight, Exclusive Interview with Harry 
Potter, page nine ...몭 Well,몯 said Hermione, folding up 
| 1079Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




the newspaper and throwing it aside, 몮it몭s certainly 
given them lots to write about. And that interview 
with Harry isn몭t exclusive, it몭s the one that was in The 
Quibbler months ago...몯 

몮Daddy sold it to them,몯 said Luna vaguely, turning a 
page of The Quibbler. 몮He got a very good price for it 
too, so we몭re going to go on an expedition to Sweden 
this summer and see if we can catch a Crumple- 
Horned Snorkack.몯 

Hermione seemed to struggle with herself for a 
moment, then said, 몮That sounds lovely.몯 

Ginny caught Harry몭s eye and looked away quickly, 
grinning. 

몮So anyway,몯 said Hermione, sitting up a little 
straighter and wincing again, 몮what몭s going on in 
school?몯 

몮Well, Flitwick몭s got rid of Fred and George몭s swamp,몯 
said Ginny. 몮He did it in about three seconds. But he 
left a tiny patch under the window and he몭s roped it 
off멪몯 

몮Why?몯 said Hermione, looking startled. 

몮Oh, he just says it was a really good bit of magic,몯 
said Ginny, shrugging. 

몮I think he left it as a monument to Fred and George,몯 
said Ron through a mouthful of chocolate. 몮They sent 
me all these, you know,몯 he told Harry, pointing at 
the small mountain of Frogs beside him. 몮Must be 
doing all right out of that joke shop, eh?몯 

Hermione looked rather disapproving and asked, 몮So 
has all the trouble stopped now Dumbledore몭s back?몯 

| 1080Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Yes,몯 said Neville, 몮everything몭s settled right back 
down again.몯 

몮I s몭pose Filch is happy, is he?몯 asked Ron, propping a 
Chocolate Frog card featuring Dumbledore against his 
water jug. 

몮Not at all,몯 said Ginny. 몮He몭s really, really miserable, 
actually...몯 She lowered her voice to a whisper. 몮He 
keeps saying Umbridge was the best thing that ever 
happened to Hogwarts...몯 

All six of them looked around. Professor Umbridge 
was lying in a bed opposite them, gazing up at the 
ceiling. Dumbledore had strode alone into the forest 
to rescue her from the centaurs. How he had done it 
멪 how he had emerged from the trees supporting 
Professor Umbridge without so much as a scratch on 
him 멪 nobody knew, and Umbridge was certainly not 
telling. Since she had returned to the castle she had 
not, as far as any of them knew, uttered a single 
word. Nobody really knew what was wrong with her 
either. Her usually neat mousy hair was very untidy 
and there were bits of twig and leaf in it, but 
otherwise she seemed to be quite unscathed. 

몮Madam Pomfrey says she몭s just in shock,몯 whispered 
Hermione. 

몮Sulking, more like,몯 said Ginny 

몮Yeah, she shows signs of life if you do this,몯 said 
Ron, and with his tongue he made soft clip-clopping 
noises. Umbridge sat bolt upright, looking wildly 
around. 

몮Anything wrong, Professor?몯 called Madam Pomfrey, 
poking her head around her office door. 



| 1081Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮No ... no ...몯 said Umbridge, sinking back into her 
pillows, 몮no, I must have been dreaming...몯 

Hermione and Ginny muffled their laughter in the 
bedclothes. 

몮Speaking of centaurs,몯 said Hermione, when she had 
recovered a little, 몮who몭s Divination teacher now? Is 
Firenze staying?몯 

몮He몭s got to,몯 said Harry, 몮the other centaurs won몭t 
take him back, will they?몯 

몮It looks like he and Trelawney are both going to 
teach,몯 said Ginny. 

몮Bet Dumbledore wishes he could몭ve got rid of 
Trelawney for good,몯 said Ron, now munching on his 
fourteenth Frog. 몮Mind you, the whole subjects 
useless if you ask me, Firenze isn몭t a lot better...몯 

몮How can you say that?몯 Hermione demanded. 몮After 
we몭ve just found out that there are real prophecies?몯 

Harry몭s heart began to race. He had not told Ron, 
Hermione, or anyone else what the prophecy had 
contained. Neville had told them it had smashed while 
Harry was pulling him up the steps in the Death 
Room, and Harry had not yet corrected this 
impression. He was not ready to see their expressions 
when he told them that he must be either murderer 
or victim, there was no other way... 

몮It is a pity it broke,몯 said Hermione quietly, shaking 
her head. 

몮Yeah, it is,몯 said Ron. 몮Still, at least You-Know-Who 
never found out what was in it either 멪 where are 



| 1082Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




you going?몯 he added, looking both surprised and 
disappointed as Harry stood up. 

몮Er 멪 Hagrid몭s,몯 said Harry. 몮You know, he just got 
back and I promised I몭d go down and see him and tell 
him how you two are...몯 

몮Oh all right then,몯 said Ron grumpily, looking out of 
the dormitory window at the patch of bright blue sky 
beyond. 몮Wish we could come ...몯 

몮Say hello to him for us!몯 called Hermione, as Harry 
proceeded down the ward. 몮And ask him what몭s 
happening about ... about his little friend!몯 

Harry gave a wave of his hand to show he had heard 
and understood as he left the dormitory. 

The castle seemed very quiet even for a Sunday. 
Everybody was clearly out in the sunny grounds, 
enjoying the end of their exams and the prospect of a 
last few days of term unhampered by studying or 
homework. Harry walked slowly along the deserted 
corridor, peering out of windows as he went. He could 
see people messing around in the air over the 
Quidditch pitch and a couple of students swimming 
in the lake, accompanied by the giant squid. 

He was finding it hard at the moment to decide 
whether he wanted to be with people or not. 

Whenever he was in company he wanted to get away, 
and whenever he was alone he wanted company. He 
thought he might really go and visit Hagrid, though; 
he had not talked to him properly since he had 
returned... 

Harry had just descended the last marble step into 
the entrance hall when Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle 
emerged from a door on the right that Harry knew led 

| 1083Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




down to the Slytherin common room. Harry stopped 
dead; so did Malfoy and the others. For a few 
moments, the only sounds were the shouts, laughter, 
and splashes drifting into the hall from the grounds 
through the open front doors. 

Malfoy glanced around. Harry knew he was checking 
for signs of teachers. Then he looked back at Harry 
and said in a low voice, 몮You몭re dead, Potter.몯 

Harry raised his eyebrows. 몮Funny,몯 he said, 몮you몭d 
think I몭d have stopped walking around...몯 

Malfoy looked angrier than Harry had ever seen him. 
He felt a kind of detached satisfaction at the sight of 
his pale, pointed face contorted with rage. 

몮You몭re going to pay,몯 said Malfoy in a voice barely 
louder than a whisper. 몮I몭m going to make you pay for 
what you몭ve done to my father...몯 

몮Well, I몭m terrified now,몯 said Harry sarcastically. 몮I 
s몭pose Lord Voldemort몭s just a warm-up act compared 
to you three 멪 what몭s the matter?몯 he said, for 
Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle had all looked stricken at 
the sound of the name. 몮He몭s your dad몭s mate, isn몭t 
he? Not scared of him, are you?몯 

몮You think you몭re such a big man, Potter,몯 said 
Malfoy, advancing now, Crabbe and Goyle flanking 
him. 몮You wait. I몭ll have you. You can몭t land my father 
in prison 멪 몯 

몮I thought I just had,몯 said Harry. 

몮The dementors have left Azkaban,몯 said Malfoy 
quietly. 몮Dad and the others몭ll be out in no time...몯 



| 1084Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Yeah, I expect they will,몯 said Harry. 몮Still, at least 
everyone knows what scumbags they are now 멪 몯 

Malfoy몭s hand flew toward his wand, but Harry was 
too quick for him. He had drawn his own wand before 
Malfoy몭s fingers had even entered the pocket of his 
robes. 

몮Potter!몯 

The voice rang across the entrance hall; Snape had 
emerged from the staircase leading down to his office, 
and at the sight of him Harry felt a great rush of 
hatred beyond anything he felt toward Malfoy . . . 
Whatever Dumbledore said, he would never forgive 
Snape ... never ... 

몮What are you doing, Potter?몯 said Snape coldly as 
ever, as he strode over to the four of them. 

몮I몭m trying to decide what curse to use on Malfoy, sir,몯 
said Harry fiercely. 

Snape stared at him. 

몮Put that wand away at once,몯 he said curtly. 몮Ten 
points from Gryff 멪 몯 

Snape looked toward the giant hourglasses on the 
walls and gave a sneering smile. 

몮Ah. I see there are no longer any points left in the 
Gryffindor hourglass to take away. In that case, 

Potter, we will simply have to 멪 몯 

몮Add some more?몯 

Professor McGonagall had just stumped up the stone 
steps into the castle. She was carrying a tartan 

| 1085Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




carpetbag in one hand and leaning heavily on a 
walking stick with her other, but otherwise looked 
quite well. 

몮Professor McGonagall!몯 said Snape, striding forward. 
몮Out of St. Mungo몭s, I see!몯 

몮Yes, Professor Snape,몯 said Professor McGonagall, 
shrugging off her traveling cloak, 몮I몭m quite as good as 
new. You two 멪 Crabbe 멪 Goyle 멪 몯 

She beckoned them forward imperiously and they 
came, shuffling their large feet and looking awkward. 

몮Here,몯 said Professor McGonagall, thrusting her 
carpetbag into Crabbe 몭s chest and her cloak into 
Goyle몭s, 몮take these up to my office for me.몯 

They turned and stumped away up the marble 
staircase. 

몮Right then,몯 said Professor McGonagall, looking up 
at the hourglasses on the wall, 몮well, I think Potter 
and his friends ought to have fifty points apiece for 
alerting the world to the return of You- Know- Who! 
What say you, Professor Snape?몯 

몮What?몯 snapped Snape, though Harry knew he had 
heard perfectly well. 몮Oh 멪 well 멪 I suppose ...몯 

몮So that몭s fifty each for Potter, the two Weasleys, 
Longbottom, and Miss Granger,몯 said Professor 
McGonagall, and a shower of rubies fell down into the 
bottom bulb of Gryffindor몭s hourglass as she spoke. 

몮Oh 멪 and fifty for Miss Lovegood, I suppose,몯 she 
added, and a number of sapphires fell into 
Ravenclaw몭s glass. 몮Now, you wanted to take ten from 
Mr. Potter, I think, Professor Snape 멪 so there we 
are...몯 

| 1086Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




A few rubies retreated into the upper bulb, leaving a 
respectable amount below nevertheless. 



몮Well, Potter, Malfoy, I think you ought to be outside 
on a glorious day like this,몯 Professor McGonagall 
continued briskly. 

Harry did not need telling twice. He thrust his wand 
back inside his robes and headed straight for the 
front doors without another glance at Snape and 
Malfoy. 

The hot sun hit him with a blast as he walked across 
the lawns toward Hagrid몭s cabin. Students lying 
around on the grass sunbathing, talking, reading the 
Sunday Prophet, and eating sweets looked up at him 
as he passed. Some called out to him, or else waved, 
clearly eager to show that they, like the Prophet, had 
decided he was something of a hero. Harry said 
nothing to any of them. He had no idea how much 
they knew of what had happened three days ago, but 
he had so far avoided being questioned and preferred 
it that way. 

He thought at first when he knocked on Hagrid몭s 
cabin door that he was out, but then Fang came 
charging around the corner and almost bowled him 
over with the enthusiasm of his welcome. Hagrid, it 
transpired, was picking runner beans in his back 
garden. 

몮All righ몭, Harry!몯 he said, beaming, when Harry 
approached the fence. 몮Come in, come in, we몭ll have a 
cup o몭 dandelion juice... 

몮How몭s things?몯 Hagrid asked him, as they settled 
down at his wooden table with a glass apiece of iced 
juice. 몮You 멪 er 멪 feelin몭 all righ몭, are yeh?몯 

| 1087Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry knew from the look of concern on Hagrid몭s face 
that he was not referring to Harry몭s physical well- 
being. 

몮I몭m fine,몯 Harry said quickly, because he could not 
bear to discuss the thing that he knew was in 
Hagrid몭s mind. 몮So, where몭ve you been?몯 

몮Bin hidin몭 out in the mountains,몯 said Hagrid. 몮Up in 
a cave, like Sirius did when he 멪 몯 

Hagrid broke off, cleared his throat gruffly, looked at 
Harry, and took a long draft of juice. 

몮Anyway, back now,몯 he said feebly. 

몮You 멪 you look better,몯 said Harry, who was 
determined to keep the conversation moving away 
from Sirius. 

몮Wha?몯 said Hagrid, raising a massive hand and 
feeling his face. 몮Oh 멪 oh yeah. Well, Grawpy몭s loads 
better behaved now, loads. Seemed right pleased ter 
see me when I got back, ter tell yeh the truth. He몭s a 
good lad, really... I몭ve bin thinkin몭 abou몭 tryin몭 ter find 
him a lady friend, actually...몯 

Harry would normally have tried to persuade Hagrid 
out of this idea at once. The prospect of a second 
giant taking up residence in the forest, possibly even 
wilder and more brutal than Grawp, was positively 
alarming, but somehow Harry could not muster the 
energy necessary to argue the point. He was starting 
to wish he was alone again, and with the idea of 
hastening his departure he took several large gulps of 
his dandelion juice, half emptying his glass. 



| 1088Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Ev몭ryone knows you몭ve bin tellin몭 the truth now, 
Harry,몯 said Hagrid softly and unexpectedly. 몮Tha몭s 
gotta be better, hasn몭 it?몯 

Harry shrugged. 

몮Look ...몯 Hagrid leaned toward him across the table, 
몮I knew Sirius longer 몭n you did... He died in battle, 
an몭 tha몭s the way he몭d몭ve wanted ter go 멪 몯 

몮He didn몭t want to go at all!몯 said Harry angrily. 

Hagrid bowed his great shaggy head. 

몮Nah, I don몭 reckon he did,몯 he said quietly. 몮But still, 
Harry ... he was never one ter sit around at home an몭 
let other people do the fightin몭. He couldn몭 have lived 
with himself if he hadn몭 gone ter help 멪 몯 

Harry leapt up again. 

몮I몭ve got to go and visit Ron and Hermione in the 
hospital wing,몯 he said mechanically. 

몮Oh,몯 said Hagrid, looking rather upset. 몮Oh ... all 
righ then, Harry ... Take care of yerself then, an몭 drop 
back in if yeh몭ve got a mo...몯 

몮Yeah ... right ...몯 

Harry crossed to the door as fast as he could and 
pulled it open. He was out in the sunshine again 
before Hagrid had finished saying goodbye and 
walked away across the lawn. Once again, people 
called out to him as he passed. He closed his eyes for 
a few moments, wishing they would all vanish, that 
he could open his eyes and find himself alone in the 
grounds... 



| 1089Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




A few days ago, before his exams had finished and he 
had seen the vision Voldemort had planted in his 
mind, he would have given almost anything for the 
Wizarding world to know that he had been telling the 
truth, for them to believe that Voldemort was back 
and know that he was neither a liar nor mad. Now, 
however ... 

He walked a short way around the lake, sat down on 
its bank, sheltered from the gaze of passersby behind 
a tangle of shrubs, and stared out over the gleaming 
water, thinking... 

Perhaps the reason he wanted to be alone was 
because he had felt isolated from everybody since his 
talk with Dumbledore. An invisible barrier separated 
him from the rest of the world. He was 멪 he had 
always been 멪 a marked man. It was just that he had 
never really understood what that meant... 

And yet sitting here on the edge of the lake, with the 
terrible weight of grief dragging at him, with the loss 
of Sirius so raw and fresh inside, he could not muster 
any great sense of fear. It was sunny and the grounds 
around him were full of laughing people, and even 
though he felt as distant from them as though he 
belonged to a different race, it was still very hard to 
believe as he sat here that his life must include, or 
end in, murder... 

He sat there for a long time, gazing out at the water, 
trying not to think about his godfather or to 
remember that it was directly across from here, on 
the opposite bank, that Sirius had collapsed trying to 
fend off a hundred dementors... 

The sun had fallen before he realized that he was 
cold. He got up and returned to the castle, wiping his 
face on his sleeve as he went. 

| 1090Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Ron and Hermione left the hospital wing completely 
cured three days before the end of term. Hermione 
showed signs of wanting to talk about Sirius, but Ron 
tended to make hushing noises every time she 
mentioned his name. Harry was not sure whether or 
not he wanted to talk about his godfather yet; his 
wishes varied with his mood. He knew one thing, 
though: Unhappy as he felt at the moment, he would 
greatly miss Hogwarts in a few days몭 time when he 
was back at number four, Privet Drive. Even though 
he now understood exactly why he had to return 
there every summer, he did not feel any better about 
it. Indeed, he had never dreaded his return more. 

Professor Umbridge left Hogwarts the day before the 
end of term. It seemed that she had crept out of the 
hospital wing during dinnertime, evidently hoping to 
depart undetected, but unfortunately for her, she met 
Peeves on the way, who seized his last chance to do 
as Fred had instructed and chased her gleefully from 
the premises, whacking her alternately with a walking 
stick and a sock full of chalk. Many students ran out 
into the entrance hall to watch her running away 
down the path, and the Heads of Houses tried only 
halfheartedly to restrain their pupils. Indeed, 

Professor McGonagall sank back into her chair at the 
staff table after a few feeble remonstrances and was 
clearly heard to express a regret that she could not 
run cheering after Umbridge herself, because Peeves 
had borrowed her walking stick. 

Their last evening at school arrived; most people had 
finished packing and were already heading down to 
the end-of-term feast, but Harry had not even started. 

몮Just do it tomorrow!몯 said Ron, who was waiting by 
the door of their dormitory. 몮Come on, I몭m starving...몯 

몮I won몭t be long... Look, you go ahead...몯 

| 1091Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




But when the dormitory door closed behind Ron, 
Harry made no effort to speed up his packing. The 
very last thing he wanted to do was to attend the end- 
of-term feast. He was worried that Dumbledore would 
make some reference to him in his speech. He was 
sure to mention Voldemort몭s return; he had talked to 
them about it last year, after all... 

Harry pulled some crumpled robes out of the very 
bottom of his trunk to make way for folded ones and, 
as he did so, noticed a badly wrapped package lying 
in a corner of it. He could not think what it was doing 
there. He bent down, pulled it out from underneath 
his trainers, and examined it. 

He realized what it was within seconds. Sirius had 
given it to him just inside the front door of twelve 
Grimmauld Place. Use it if you need me, all right? 

Harry sank down onto his bed and unwrapped the 
package. Out fell a small, square mirror. It looked old; 
it was certainly dirty. Harry held it up to his face and 
saw his own reflection looking back at him. 

He turned the mirror over. There on the reverse side 
was a scribbled note from Sirius. 

This is a two-way mirror. I몭ve got the other. If you need 
to speak to me, just say my name into it; you몭ll appear 
in my mirror and I몭ll be able to talk in yours. James 
and I used to use them when we were in separate 
detentions. 

And Harry몭s heart began to race. He remembered 
seeing his dead parents in the Mirror of Erised four 
years ago. He was going to be able to talk to Sirius 
again, right now, he knew it 멪 



| 1092Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




He looked around to make sure there was nobody else 
there; the dormitory was quite empty. He looked back 
at the mirror, raised it in front of his face with 
trembling hands, and said, loudly and clearly, 

몮Sirius.몯 

His breath misted the surface of the glass. He held 
the mirror even closer, excitement flooding through 
him, but the eyes blinking back at him through the 
fog were definitely his own. 

He wiped the mirror clear again and said, so that 
every syllable rang clearly through the room, 몮Sirius 
Black!몯 

Nothing happened. The frustrated face looking back 
out of the mirror was still, definitely, his own... 

Sirius didn몭t have his mirror on him when he went 
through the archway, said a small voice in Harry몭s 
head. That몭s why it몭s not working... 

Harry remained quite still for a moment, then hurled 
the mirror back into the trunk where it shattered. He 
had been convinced, for a whole, shining minute, that 
he was going to see Sirius, talk to him again... 

Disappointment was burning in his throat. He got up 
and began throwing his things pell-mell into the 
trunk on top of the broken mirror 멪 

But then an idea struck him... A better idea than a 
mirror ... A much bigger, more important idea . . . How 
had he never thought of it before 멪 why had he never 
asked? 

He was sprinting out of the dormitory and down the 
spiral staircase, hitting the walls as he ran and barely 
noticing. He hurtled across the empty common room, 

| 1093Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




through the portrait hole and off along the corridor, 
ignoring the Fat Lady, who called after him, 몮The feast 
is about to start, you know, you몭re cutting it very 
fine!몯 

But Harry had no intention of going to the feast . . . 

How could it be that the place was full of ghosts 
whenever you didn몭t need one, yet now ... 

He ran down staircases and along corridors and met 
nobody either alive or dead. They were all, clearly, in 
the Great Hall. Outside his Charms classroom he 
came to a halt, panting and thinking disconsolately 
that he would have to wait until later, until after the 
end of the feast . . . 

But just as he had given up hope he saw it 멪 a 
translucent somebody drifting across the end of the 
corridor. 

몮Hey 멪 hey Nick! NICK!몯 

The ghost stuck its head back out of the wall, 
revealing the extravagantly plumed hat and 
dangerously wobbling head of Sir Nicholas de Mimsy- 
Porpington. 

몮Good evening,몯 he said, withdrawing the rest of his 
body from the solid stone and smiling at Harry. 몮I am 
not the only one who is late, then? Though,몯 he 
sighed, 몮in rather different senses, of course ...몯 

몮Nick, can I ask you something?몯 

A most peculiar expression stole over Nearly Headless 
Nick몭s face as he inserted a finger in the stiff ruff at 
his neck and tugged it a little straighter, apparently to 
give himself thinking time. He desisted only when his 

| 1094Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




partially severed neck seemed about to give way 
completely. 



몮Er 멪 now, Harry?몯 said Nick, looking discomforted. 
몮Can몭t it wait until after the feast?몯 

몮No 멪 Nick 멪 please,몯 said Harry, 몮I really need to 
talk to you. Can we go in here?몯 

Harry opened the door of the nearest classroom and 
Nearly Headless Nick sighed. 

몮Oh very well,몯 he said, looking resigned. 몮I can몭t 
pretend I haven몭t been expecting it.몯 

Harry was holding the door open for him, but he 
drifted through the wall instead. 

몮Expecting what?몯 Harry asked, as he closed the door. 

몮You to come and find me,몯 said Nick, now gliding 
over to the window and looking out at the darkening 
grounds. 몮It happens, sometimes ... when somebody 
has suffered a ... loss.몯 

몮Well,몯 said Harry, refusing to be deflected. 몮You were 
right, I몭ve 멪 I몭ve come to find you.몯 

Nick said nothing. 

몮It몭s 멪 몯 said Harry, who was finding this more 
awkward than he had anticipated, 몮it몭s just 멪 you몭re 
dead. But you몭re still here, aren몭t you?몯 

Nick sighed and continued to gaze out at the grounds. 

몮That몭s right, isn몭t it?몯 Harry urged him. 몮You died, 
but I몭m talking to you... You can walk around 
Hogwarts and everything, can몭t you?몯 

| 1095Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Yes,몯 said Nearly Headless Nick quietly, 몮I walk and 
talk, yes.몯 

몮So, you came back, didn몭t you?몯 said Harry urgently. 
몮People can come back, right? As ghosts. They don몭t 
have to disappear completely. Well?몯 he added 
impatiently, when Nick continued to say nothing. 

Nearly Headless Nick hesitated, then said, 몮Not 
everyone can come back as a ghost.몯 

몮What d몭you mean?몯 said Harry quickly. 

몮Only ... only wizards.몯 

몮Oh,몯 said Harry, and he almost laughed with relief. 
몮Well, that몭s okay then, the person I몭m asking about is 
a wizard. So he can come back, right?몯 

Nick turned away from the window and looked 
mournfully at Harry. 몮He won몭t come back.몯 

몮Who?몯 

몮Sirius Black,몯 said Nick. 

몮But you did!몯 said Harry angrily. 몮You came back 멪 
you몭re dead and you didn몭t disappear 멪 몯 

몮Wizards can leave an imprint of themselves upon the 
earth, to walk palely where their living selves once 
trod,몯 said Nick miserably. 몮But very few wizards 
choose that path.몯 

몮Why not?몯 said Harry. 몮Anyway 멪 it doesn몭t matter 
멪 Sirius won몭t care if it몭s unusual, he몭ll come back, I 
know he will!몯 



| 1096Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




And so strong was his belief that Harry actually 
turned his head to check the door, sure, for a split 
second, that he was going to see Sirius, pearly white 
and transparent but beaming, walking through it 
toward him. 

몮He will not come back,몯 repeated Nick quietly. 몮He 
will have ... gone on.몯 

몮What d몭you mean, 몬gone on몭?몯 said Harry quickly. 
몮Gone on where? Listen 멪 what happens when you 
die, anyway? Where do you go? Why doesn몭t everyone 
come back? Why isn몭t this place full of ghosts? Why 
멪 ?몯 

몮I cannot answer,몯 said Nick. 

몮You몭re dead, aren몭t you?몯 said Harry exasperatedly. 
몮Who can answer better than you?몯 

몮I was afraid of death,몯 said Nick. 몮I chose to remain 
behind. I sometimes wonder whether I oughtn몭t to 
have ... Well, that is neither here nor there... In fact, I 
am neither here nor there...몯 He gave a small sad 
chuckle. 몮I know nothing of the secrets of death, 

Harry, for I chose my feeble imitation of life instead. I 
believe learned wizards study the matter in the 
Department of Mysteries 멪 몯 

몮Don몭t talk to me about that place!몯 said Harry 
fiercely. 

몮I am sorry not to have been more help,몯 said Nick 
gently. 몮Well ... well, do excuse me ... the feast, you 
know ...몯 

And he left the room, leaving Harry there alone, 
gazing blankly at the wall through which Nick had 
disappeared. 

| 1097Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry felt almost as though he had lost his godfather 
all over again in losing the hope that he might be able 
to see or speak to him once more. He walked slowly 
and miserably back up through the empty castle, 
wondering whether he would ever feel cheerful again. 

He had turned the corner toward the Fat Lady몭s 
corridor when he saw somebody up ahead fastening a 
note to a board on the wall. A second glance showed 
him that it was Luna. There were no good hiding 
places nearby, she was bound to have heard his 
footsteps, and in any case, Harry could hardly muster 
the energy to avoid anyone at the moment. 

몮Hello,몯 said Luna vaguely, glancing around at him as 
she stepped back from the notice. 

몮How come you몭re not at the feast?몯 Harry asked. 

몮Well, I몭ve lost most of my possessions,몯 said Luna 
serenely. 몮People take them and hide them, you know. 
But as it몭s the last night, I really do need them back, 
so I몭ve been putting up signs.몯 

She gestured toward the notice board, upon which, 
sure enough, she had pinned a list of all her missing 
books and clothes, with a plea for their return. 

An odd feeling rose in Harry 멪 an emotion quite 
different from the anger and grief that had filled him 
since Sirius몭s death. It was a few moments before he 
realized that he was feeling sorry for Luna. 

몮How come people hide your stuff?몯 he asked her, 
frowning. 

몮Oh ... well ...몯 She shrugged. 몮I think they think I몭m a 
bit odd, you know. Some people call me 몬Loony몭 
Lovegood, actually.몯 

| 1098Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry looked at her and the new feeling of pity 
intensified rather painfully. 

몮That몭s no reason for them to take your things,몯 he 
said flatly. 몮D몭you want help finding them?몯 

몮Oh no,몯 she said, smiling at him. 몮They몭ll come back, 
they always do in the end. It was just that I wanted to 
pack tonight. Anyway ... why aren몭t you at the feast?몯 

Harry shrugged. 몮Just didn몭t feel like it.몯 

몮No,몯 said Luna, observing him with those oddly 
misty, protuberant eyes. 몮I don몭t suppose you do. 

That man the Death Eaters killed was your godfather, 
wasn몭t he? Ginny told me.몯 

Harry nodded curtly, but found that for some reason 
he did not mind Luna talking about Sirius. He had 
just remembered that she too could see thestrals. 

몮Have you ...몯 he began. 몮I mean, who ... has anyone 
you몭ve known ever died?몯 

몮Yes,몯 said Luna simply, 몮my mother. She was a quite 
extraordinary witch, you know, but she did like to 
experiment and one of her spells went rather badly 
wrong one day. I was nine.몯 

몮I몭m sorry,몯 Harry mumbled. 

몮Yes, it was rather horrible,몯 said Luna 
conversationally. 몮I still feel very sad about it 
sometimes. But I몭ve still got Dad. And anyway, it몭s not 
as though I몭ll never see Mum again, is it?몯 

몮Er 멪 isn몭t it?몯 said Harry uncertainly. 



| 1099Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




She shook her head in disbelief. 몮Oh, come on. You 
heard them, just behind the veil, didn몭t you?몯 

몮You mean ...몯 

몮In that room with the archway. They were just 
lurking out of sight, that몭s all. You heard them.몯 

They looked at each other. Luna was smiling slightly. 
Harry did not know what to say, or to think. Luna 
believed so many extraordinary things . . . yet he had 
been sure he had heard voices behind the veil too... 

몮Are you sure you don몭t want me to help you look for 
your stuff?몯 he said. 

몮Oh no,몯 said Luna. 몮No, I think I몭ll just go down and 
have some pudding and wait for it all to turn up... It 
always does in the end... Well, have a nice holiday, 
Harry.몯 

몮Yeah ... yeah, you too.몯 

She walked away from him, and as he watched her 
go, he found that the terrible weight in his stomach 
seemed to have lessened slightly. 

The journey home on the Hogwarts Express next day 
was eventful in several ways. Firstly, Malfoy, Crabbe, 
and Goyle, who had clearly been waiting all week for 
the opportunity to strike without teacher witnesses, 
attempted to ambush Harry halfway down the train 
as he made his way back from the toilet. The attack 
might have succeeded had it not been for the fact that 
they unwittingly chose to stage the attack right 
outside a compartment full of D.A. members, who saw 
what was happening through the glass and rose as 
one to rush to Harry몭s aid. By the time Ernie 
Macmillan, Hannah Abbott, Susan Bones, Justin 
| llOOHarry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Finch-Fletchley, Anthony Goldstein, and Terry Boot 
had finished using a wide variety of the hexes and 
jinxes Harry had taught them, Malfoy, Crabbe, and 
Goyle resembled nothing so much as three gigantic 
slugs squeezed into Hogwarts uniforms as Harry, 

Ernie, and Justin hoisted them into the luggage rack 
and left them there to ooze. 

몮I must say, I몭m looking forward to seeing Malfoy몭s 
mother몭s face when he gets off the train,몯 said Ernie 
with some satisfaction, as he watched Malfoy squirm 
above him. Ernie had never quite got over the 
indignity of Malfoy docking points from Hufflepuff 
during his brief spell as a member of the Inquisitorial 
Squad. 

몮Goyle몭s mum몭ll be really pleased, though,몯 said Ron, 
who had come to investigate the source of the 
commotion. 몮He몭s loads betterlooking now... Anyway, 
Harry, the food trolley몭s just stopped if you want 
anything...몯 

Harry thanked the others and accompanied Ron back 
to their compartment, where he bought a large pile of 
Cauldron Cakes and Pumpkin Pasties. Hermione was 
reading the Daily Prophet again, Ginny was doing a 
quiz in The Quibbler, and Neville was stroking his 
Mimbulus mimbletonia, which had grown a great deal 
over the year and now made odd crooning noises 
when touched. 

Harry and Ron whiled away most of the journey 
playing wizard chess while Hermione read out 
snippets from the Prophet It was now full of articles 
about how to repel dementors, attempts by the 
Ministry to track down Death Eaters, and hysterical 
letters claiming that the writer had seen Lord 
Voldemort walking past their house that very 
morning. . . 

| llOlHarry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮It hasn몭t really started yet,몯 sighed Hermione 
gloomily, folding up the newspaper again. 몮But it 
won몭t be long now...몯 

몮Hey, Harry,몯 said Ron, nodding toward the glass 
window onto the corridor. 

Harry looked around. Cho was passing, accompanied 
by Marietta Edgecombe, who was wearing a balaclava. 
His and Cho몭s eyes met for a moment. Cho blushed 
and kept walking. Harry looked back down at the 
chessboard just in time to see one of his pawns 
chased off its square by Ron몭s knight. 

몮What몭s 멪 er 멪 going on with you and her anyway?몯 
Ron asked quietly. 

몮Nothing,몯 said Harry truthfully. 

몮I 멪 er 멪 heard she몭s going out with someone else 
now,몯 said Hermione tentatively. 

Harry was surprised to find that this information did 
not hurt at all. Wanting to impress Cho seemed to 
belong to a past that was no longer quite connected 
with him. So much of what he had wanted before 
Sirius몭s death felt that way these days... The week 
that had elapsed since he had last seen Sirius seemed 
to have lasted much, much longer: It stretched across 
two universes, the one with Sirius in it, and the one 
without. 

몮You몭re well out of it, mate,몯 said Ron forcefully. 몮I 
mean, she몭s quite good-looking and all that, but you 
want someone a bit more cheerful.몯 

몮She몭s probably cheerful enough with someone else,몯 
said Harry, shrugging. 



| 1102Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Who몭s she with now anyway?몯 Ron asked Hermione, 
but it was Ginny who answered. 

몮Michael Corner,몯 she said. 

몮Michael 멪 but 멪 몯 said Ron, craning around in his 
seat to stare at her. 몮But you were going out with 
him!몯 

몮Not anymore,몯 said Ginny resolutely. 몮He didn몭t like 
Gryffindor beating Ravenclaw at Quidditch and got 
really sulky, so I ditched him and he ran off to 
comfort Cho instead.몯 She scratched her nose 
absently with the end of her quill, turned The 
Quibbler upside down, and began marking her 
answers. Ron looked highly delighted. 

몮Well, I always thought he was a bit of an idiot,몯 he 
said, prodding his queen forward toward Harry몭s 
quivering castle. 몮Good for you. Just choose someone 
멪 better 멪 next time.몯 

He cast Harry an oddly furtive look as he said it. 

몮Well, I몭ve chosen Dean Thomas, would you say he몭s 
better?몯 asked Ginny vaguely. 

몮WHAT?몯 shouted Ron, upending the chessboard. 
Crookshanks went plunging after the pieces and 
Hedwig and Pigwidgeon twittered and hooted angrily 
from overhead. 

As the train slowed down in the approach to King몭s 
Cross, Harry thought he had never wanted to leave it 
less. He even wondered fleetingly what would happen 
if he simply refused to get off, but remained 
stubbornly sitting there until the first of September, 
when it would take him back to Hogwarts. When it 
finally puffed to a standstill, however, he lifted down 
| 1103Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Hedwig몭s cage and prepared to drag his trunk from 
the train as usual. 

When the ticket inspector signaled to him, Ron, and 
Hermione that it was safe to walk through the 
magical barrier between platforms nine and ten, 
however, he found a surprise awaiting him on the 
other side: a group of people standing there to greet 
him whom he had not expected at all. 

There was Mad-Eye Moody, looking quite as sinister 
with his bowler hat pulled low over his magical eye as 
he would have done without it, his gnarled hands 
clutching a long staff, his body wrapped in a 
voluminous traveling cloak. Tonks stood just behind 
him, her bright bubble-gum-pink hair gleaming in the 
sunlight filtering through the dirty glass station 
ceiling, wearing heavily patched jeans and a bright 
purple T-shirt bearing the legend THE WEIRD 
SISTERS. Next to Tonks was Lupin, his face pale, his 
hair graying, a long and threadbare overcoat covering 
a shabby jumper and trousers. At the front of the 
group stood Mr. and Mrs. Weasley, dressed in their 
Muggle best, and Fred and George, who were both 
wearing brand-new jackets in some lurid green, scaly 
material. 

몮Ron, Ginny!몯 called Mrs. Weasley, hurrying forward 
and hugging her children tightly. 몮Oh, and Harry dear 
멪 how are you?몯 

몮Fine,몯 lied Harry, as she pulled him into a tight 
embrace. Over her shoulder he saw Ron goggling at 
the twins몭 new clothes. 

몮What are they supposed to be?몯 he asked, pointing at 
the jackets. 



| 1104Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Finest dragon skin, little bro,몯 said Fred, giving his 
zip a little tweak. 몮Business is booming and we 
thought we몭d treat ourselves.몯 

몮Hello, Harry,몯 said Lupin, as Mrs. Weasley let go of 
Harry and turned to greet Hermione. 

몮Hi,몯 said Harry. 몮I didn몭t expect ... what are you all 
doing here?몯 

몮Well,몯 said Lupin with a slight smile, 몮we thought we 
might have a little chat with your aunt and uncle 
before letting them take you home.몯 

몮I dunno if that몭s a good idea,몯 said Harry at once. 

몮Oh, I think it is,몯 growled Moody, who had limped a 
little closer. 몮That몭ll be them, will it, Potter?몯 

He pointed with his thumb over his shoulder; his 
magical eye was evidently peering through the back of 
his head and his bowler hat. Harry leaned an inch or 
so to the left to see where Mad-Eye was pointing and 
there, sure enough, were the three Dursleys, who 
looked positively appalled to see Harry몭s reception 
committee. 

몮Ah, Harry!몯 said Mr. Weasley, turning from 
Hermione몭s parents, whom he had been greeting 
enthusiastically, and who were taking it in turns to 
hug Hermione. 몮Well 멪 shall we do it, then?몯 

몮Yeah, I reckon so, Arthur,몯 said Moody. 

He and Mr. Weasley took the lead across the station 
toward the place where the Dursleys stood, 
apparently rooted to the floor. Hermione disengaged 
herself gently from her mother to join the group. 



| 1105Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




몮Good afternoon,몯 said Mr. Weasley pleasantly to 
Uncle Vernon, coming to a halt right in front of him. 
몮You might remember me, my name몭s Arthur 
Weasley.몯 

As Mr. Weasley had singlehandedly demolished most 
of the Dursleys몭 living room two years previously, 

Harry would have been very surprised if Uncle Vernon 
had forgotten him. Sure enough, Uncle Vernon turned 
a deeper shade of puce and glared at Mr. Weasley, 
but chose not to say anything, partly, perhaps, 
because the Dursleys were outnumbered two to one. 
Aunt Petunia looked both frightened and 
embarrassed. She kept glancing around, as though 
terrified somebody she knew would see her in such 
company. Dudley, meanwhile, seemed to be trying to 
look small and insignificant, a feat at which he was 
failing extravagantly. 

몮We thought we몭d just have a few words with you 
about Harry,몯 said Mr. Weasley, still smiling. 

몮Yeah,몯 growled Moody. 몮About how he몭s treated when 
he몭s at your place.몯 

Uncle Vernon몭s mustache seemed to bristle with 
indignation. Possibly because the bowler hat gave him 
the entirely mistaken impression that he was dealing 
with a kindred spirit, he addressed himself to Moody. 

몮I am not aware that it is any of your business what 
goes on in my house 멪 몯 

몮I expect what you몭re not aware of would fill several 
books, Dursley,몯 growled Moody. 

몮Anyway, that몭s not the point,몯 interjected Tonks, 
whose pink hair seemed to offend Aunt Petunia more 
than all the rest put together, for she closed her eyes 

| 1106Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




rather than look at her. 몮The point is, if we find out 
you몭ve been horrible to Harry 멪 몯 

몮 멪 and make no mistake, we몭ll hear about it,몯 added 
Lupin pleasantly. 

몮Yes,몯 said Mr. Weasley, 몮even if you won몭t let Harry 
use the fellytone 멪 몯 

몮 Telephone ,몯 whispered Hermione. 

몮Yeah, if we get any hint that Potter몭s been mistreated 
in any way, you몭ll have us to answer to,몯 said Moody. 

Uncle Vernon swelled ominously. His sense of outrage 
seemed to outweigh even his fear of this bunch of 
oddballs. 

몮Are you threatening me, sir?몯 he said, so loudly that 
passersby actually turned to stare. 

몮Yes, I am,몯 said Mad-Eye, who seemed rather pleased 
that Uncle Vernon had grasped this fact so quickly. 

몮And do I look like the kind of man who can be 
intimidated?몯 barked Uncle Vernon. 

몮Well ...몯 said Moody, pushing back his bowler hat to 
reveal his sinisterly revolving magical eye. Uncle 
Vernon leapt backward in horror and collided 
painfully with a luggage trolley. 몮Yes, I몭d have to say 
you do, Dursley.몯 

He turned from Uncle Vernon to Harry. 몮So, Potter ... 
give us a shout if you need us. If we don몭t hear from 
you for three days in a row, well send someone 
along...몯 



| 1107Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Aunt Petunia whimpered piteously. It could not have 
been plainer that she was thinking of what the 
neighbors would say if they caught sight of these 
people marching up the garden path. 

몮 T3ye, then, Potter,몯 said Moody, grasping Harry몭s 
shoulder for a moment with a gnarled hand. 

몮Take care, Harry,몯 said Lupin quietly. 몮Keep in 
touch.몯 

몮Harry, we몭ll have you away from there as soon as we 
can,몯 Mrs. Weasley whispered, hugging him again. 

몮We몭ll see you soon, mate,몯 said Ron anxiously, 
shaking Harry몭s hand. 

몮Really soon, Harry,몯 said Hermione earnestly. 몮We 
promise.몯 

Harry nodded. He somehow could not find words to 
tell them what it meant to him, to see them all ranged 
there, on his side. Instead he smiled, raised a hand in 
farewell, turned around, and led the way out of the 
station toward the sunlit street, with Uncle Vernon, 
Aunt Petunia, and Dudley hurrying along in his wake. 



| 1108Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




